yo
[Music]
good morning good afternoon good evening
we coming from hope you all are doing
well
hey
we we had some of the silent y'alls
early you know
started off right what's going on
everybody
everyone's doing well
hey welcome welcome welcome
alrighty we got we got some we got some
bangers tonight folks we got a lot of
review a lot of practice
uh i have some amazing folks here with
me uh helping do some maintenance and so
if you hear some bangs or bobs that's
what's going on but uh glad you all are
here indifferent yo thank you for the 10
gift itselves that's wild
thank you so much for being here i
appreciate that
hey
welcome everybody get in here hope
you're doing well
hope you're
what was it a day or two ago before we
learned about freelancing so many folks
on twitter were sharing that they're
already talking the client some folks
have already gotten
clients that's wild to me
but i hope you had some fun last tuesday
lots of review and practice this evening
tonight is all about getting our hands
on the keyboard typing out lots of code
some things are going to be easy some
things will be hard we're going to
review it all together and then as
always afterwards i'll send you a zip
with all of my solutions so you can work
through them on your own as well so
we're going to get into it tonight and
uh let's let's uh i'm gonna keep it keep
it real for a second here what
indifferent hey
thank you so much i appreciate the
gifted subs again that's wild trying to
[Music]
what
that's wild we're literally live the
train don't stop thank you ghost i
appreciate you
that's wild
hey thank you for the gift of subs i
appreciate you uh for followers that
don't know and different they they they
go off on discord helping so many of
folks that are lost in the sauce going
on the struggle bus they're the ones
that that get them off the struggle bus
time and time again uh when you're in
that celebrations channel and you see
folks
thanking the community indifference
always on that list because they really
do the most and and help out so many
folks here so i appreciate the gift of
subs but i appreciate you being here i
appreciate all the work you put in to
make 100 devs what it is
what's going on
it's weird folks it's weird today was
not a good day for me uh these past 24
hours were rough
but coming live getting the yells in
seeing everyone here
seeing all the support i love seeing you
all thank you for being here we got a
lot of fun stuff to do tonight tonight
is a lot of
a lot of review a lot of fingers on
keyboard and i think after this class
after this class
things start to click a little bit
we're not going to go as far as to say
things will start to make 100 sense but
i really like this class for folks that
are
fully on the struggle bus where you're
starting with three classes into
javascript remember that three classes
in the javascript that's kind of wild
right we're three classes into
javascript and this class i think is
enough practice to start wrapping your
brain around some ideas so i'm hoping
that you're ready i'm hoping that you're
excited and i know that if we work
through these together things will
slowly start to click and then over the
coming weeks things will start to click
we have a lot of stuff coming in that's
going to help and push but tonight it's
about practice
global hey thank you for the gift of
subs i appreciate you
it feels like we're a monk deep exactly
we're three classes in the javascript
that is so wild to me the fact that you
all are picking up on things taking
things making them your own it's always
wonderful to see i love when folks share
it on discord i see you sharing on
twitter
it blows my mind how quickly you're able
to take things and make it your own and
and not even that just willing to see
people play that's the biggest thing for
me i love being able to see folks that
are willing to leave the
the the imposter syndrome at the door to
get in there to play to build to break
to have things go hilariously wrong and
in the end maybe make something original
so
for those that haven't made it to that
place yet i hope that after these couple
next couple classes you start to feel a
little bit more at ease and you feel
comfortable to play because in that
playing is where most of your learning
will come it's the building it's the
breaking it's the having the fun where
it will come through so tonight we have
lots of hands on keyboard practice but
have fun with it it's a lot there's
gonna be some things that are easy some
things that are hard but please please
please have fun with the stuff this
evening
all right
we always like to start off with some
questions
and so the question of the day
question of the day would you rather be
able to see your own future
or everyone's future but your own
so yours or others let me see yours or
others in the chat
please yours or others
oh
this is like 50 50. you know what we
need to do polls
we should be doing polls instead of just
throwing in chat that'd be
that'd probably be way better i'll
figure that out for next class
others others i think others are edging
it out you know what i feel like
i feel like i could do more good knowing
others
but i could sleep a lot better with my
own oh that's a hard one
i'm going to go others for now others
for now it might change i might have
said something different last time i'm
going to go with others for now
become the prophecy exactly
would you sleep better though exactly
that's the real question i'm going to
say others maybe me knowing my own be
too much and life would uh be fabulously
turned upside down so let's let's go
with others
all right you always like to get some
questions as folks are showing up so
other questions for me we're going to
kind of answer a few questions and then
we'll get started i always like to give
folks a chance to get in here running
from work yeah
question how do you keep two twitter
profiles separate mine keep
cross-pollinating
uh i don't know i don't have two
separate profiles i'm i'm a big
proponent of having one
even like being professional and just
not wild and on twitter some folks like
the while on twitter that's maybe then
you have to create a separate account
but i don't know i kind of treat twitter
a little bit more professionally than i
think some folks would but i'm also not
the best at twitter
i really look to folks like sam to see
like what's possible but i think one
account's just easier
when do we start the coding challenges
uh next week so we wanted to we kind of
slowed down a little bit we did an extra
review class and so i didn't want to
overwhelm
the
the folks just that we're kind of
getting the gears turning with
javascript so next week's going to be a
little bit of an odd week we're doing a
lot of networking and coming together as
a community so next week will be time
for the coding challenges
people like slowed down no no no we we
got an extra we got an extra review
class and that's all i'm saying there
oh and different started the poll i love
it there you go thank you um
so i wanted to just take a little bit of
a breather i want to get some more
practice in tonight and then we'll start
the challenges i'd rather do challenges
together and then next week since it'll
be less formal class next week it'll be
good to have those challenges every day
so there's something to push yourself
while we might not necessarily be
physically like
in class
i'm having my own personal challenge i
feel you
uh i had a discussion with my girlfriend
about the difference between junior and
entry level but a hard time expressing
it why is junior not okay but entry
level is
um there's a weird connotation when you
throw around the word junior it's a word
that's used to pay people less
to
to diminish their capabilities and their
ability as a software engineer so i i
don't like the negative connotation that
comes with junior i don't refer to any
of my students as junior it's not
something i would ever throw out there i
think there's a weird kind of power
complex when you start throwing out that
word and so for me i think entry level
is the more appropriate term for folks
that are software engineers we're not
saying you're you're less than you're a
software engineer but you're at the
beginning of your career to me that's a
way better phrasing and it might be
semantics for some folks but for me um
i think there's there's a really heavy
bias when you throw around the junior
word that i don't like and we don't have
to use it so why use it
yeah
do we get spring break well funny thing
is last time this cohort we had like a
two week break after this class so we're
not doing that break that we did last
cohort but next week is going to be more
um more things that will be more
community focused so we're going to have
networking nights we're going to have
like working together nights and so
it'll be not necessarily 100 class but
more coming together as a community and
you'll notice that there is a lot of
homework that homework is not due next
tuesday it's due the tuesday after right
so you have like a whole week where
we're not doing formal class but more
networking more getting to know each
other more supporting each other and
then you have these readings and
challenges that you'll be doing kind of
either a little bit later in class time
or on your own and then we come back
together and we go hard right so that's
the idea so a little bit slower of a
week next week
cool
alrighty let's talk about some stuff
folks uh tonight we're going to talk a
little bit more about next week
we're going to review some pseudo code
variables conditionals functions lots of
fingers on keyboard practice with each
of these so we're going to review
variables and then do practice problems
with variables we're going to review
conditionals do practice problems with
conditionals right then we're going to
do functions and then we're going to
review functions with practice problems
i got you tub
um
then once we got all of our review in
we're feeling comfortable we're feeling
confident then we'll do loops
sound good
all right before we do that
we gotta talk about some stuff tonight
so please if you haven't already
check in you can always do exclamation
point check in here in chat but if
you're following me on twitter you would
always see the tweet if you look at the
follow-on materials channel or the going
live notification you have the check-in
as well
today five-hour class not today
five-hour class but on sunday
i feel like sunday's class might go five
hours uh so sunday we're doing our
normal office hours but there's so much
stuff that i want to cover i want to do
a few layouts i want to incorporate
javascript into those layouts i want to
talk a little bit more about freelancing
and so that sunday might be
more of a review class and so there
might be a lot of we might go like four
four or five hours
yeah so if you feel like you want more
review after tonight uh come by on
sunday we'll get that review in
cool
alrighty
why don't we just teach them express dab
come on now
not today not today deb
all right thank you for checking in uh
submitting work there was no like hard
requirements for work this week i just
wanted to see what you added to your
javascript so if you played with stuff
if you added stuff if you broke stuff i
want to see your broken code i want to
see the thing that you tried to do but
it didn't work out you cried a little i
want you to submit that right like i
want you i want you to i want you to
show me the stuff that that you worked
on right so if you were a baddie and
wrote bad code i want to see it right
uh if you if you extended it you added
on to it you made it different you made
your own share that too
so nothing formal but i just want to see
what the things you worked on the
the prompt for the homework was to
delete everything type it redo it delete
everything type it redo it delete
everything type it redo it boy i wish i
had loops and then
make it your own and so i hope that you
did do that you have to play with the
code folks if you're sitting there
saying you know what this javascript
isn't clicking and you haven't done the
deleting retyping until it's in your
brain and you don't need to look at the
examples anymore there's a reason why
you're feeling that way you have to get
that repetition in if you have the
privilege of time please use it to do
that repetition
cool
all right
i want to start off the next few minutes
here
with with a poem i i shared it in the
in the
uh
follow materials channel today
but it's a it's a it's a really
important poem and i think it's
something that i need all of you to have
in your brain right now as we go into
these next couple of weeks right so give
me a second i'm gonna i'm gonna read it
i'm to read it this is this is poetry
night folks it's a quick one give me
give me the give me a few seconds to go
through it
thinking
if you think you've beaten you are if
you think you dare not you don't
if you like to win but you think you
can't you almost certain you won't
that's huge it's huge if you like to win
but you think you can't it's almost
certain you won't if you think you'll
lose you're lost
we're out in the world we find success
begins with a phillo's will
it's all in the state of mind i can't
explain that anymore we talked about dr
eric thomas right winners win losers
lose the state of mind you got to get
past the impostor syndrome you got to
get past the fear the doubt
the the the thing that's in your brain
telling you can't do this you got to get
to the other side and say you know what
i'm a baddie i write bad code i'm going
to i'm going to have fun i'm going to
play with this and then through that
exploration that playing things start to
click
all right
if you think you are outclassed you are
that's why we don't use the word junior
if you think
if you got to think hi to rise you got
to be sure of yourself before you can
ever win a prize
you've got to be sure of yourself
before you can ever win a prize
you got to be sure of yourself
you got to be sure of yourself folks
don't don't think about the things that
you don't know don't think about the
tasks that are ahead of you don't think
about all the javascript that's to come
right
have a belief in yourself that as things
come you will work through them you have
the skills you've learned how to learn
right you have your active recall you
have your space repetition you have
these things
that you can use at your disposal
my biggest strength as an engineer is
not the things that i know
knowing that i can figure stuff out
that's it
i know that if given enough time i have
a belief in myself that i will figure
stuff out you need to cultivate that
belief in yourself and if you're here
you can do it
cool
life's battles don't always go to the
stronger or faster man but sooner or
late the man who wins the man who thinks
he can
so pronouns aside there
you gotta think that you can do it
i i don't know
how to explain this any
any other better way
you gotta just believe in yourself that
you'll get there
we're on class
we're we're 15 classes in
15 nights that you've given me to learn
this material
think about how far you've gone in those
15 nights
it's wild
the the things that you now know
the html the css the javascript even if
it's not perfect
the fact that you sat down
you invested your time to learn this
stuff and some things are sticking
that's amazing
it is
most folks don't put in this work they
don't give themselves the benefit of the
time the benefit of believing and
thinking that they can but the sooner
you let that sink in the more things
will start to click
the sooner you'll be able to wow
yourself on a very day-to-day basis i
sit down i write code and i go holy [__]
i just did that like i like
i didn't know i was capable i can't tell
you how often that happens but i know i
can figure stuff out you're going to
surprise yourself the more you put into
it
cool so i want to start off with that
because there's there's a couple of
things that we need to just lay out
there before we get on tonight i know
give me a little bit a little bit more
room to rant but
you got to realize that javascript
should not make sense yet
it just it just shouldn't make sense yet
your three classes in it's a brand new
language
a brand new language if you were three
classes into
learning
spanish and you've never spoken spanish
in your life or three classes in the
japanese never spoke japanese your life
you would not be freaking out saying
that you're lost that things don't make
sense
it just doesn't make sense like it just
it just it's just not
it just doesn't compute like i i don't
understand
right that that feeling right like it's
yes things seem difficult sing things
seem hard but you got to believe that
with time you'll figure it out
right so it shouldn't make sense yet
we're not there
one of the things that you're seeing
hopefully
is that we're learning just enough to be
dangerous
right a lot of these concepts stack
and there's no way that you can you can
stack without having a few blocks to
play with at first you're not going to
have all the legos you're not going to
have all the blocks but you have enough
to start building bigger and bigger
things right and it's really hard when
it comes to web development to think in
the bigger picture when you don't know
what the building blocks are so we cover
a little bit of html we cover a little
bit of css we cover a little bit of
javascript so you can get an overview
and then we grind we put in the work we
put in the hours we make sure that all
those things start to click
all right
and so
you can't put that pressure on yourself
to to say you know what i'm not percent
there you're not supposed to be 100
there javascript 100 should not make
sense yet it's just too early where
three classes in there's uh people spend
their whole careers on this right
cool
how about this
you should still struggle with css
you should
you should still struggle with css css
should not not make sense
right people people say or somebody
drilling no that's your brain making
these connections that's the people
going to work in your brain you hear
hear that hear the connections being
made
that's it that's what's happening
right you should still struggle with css
no one
no one expects you
to have mastered css to be able to do
beautiful layouts from scratch no
you just haven't had enough time yet but
why
spend all your time worrying about not
being good at css
when you could
be investing your time
and
continuing your learning journey knowing
that as we get to bigger things you'll
come back and reinforce those concepts
i think i think that's what i need you
to see right
you should
still struggle
with choosing html tags
there's hundreds of them i don't know if
there's hundreds of them there's
probably around 100 of them right
right there's probably 100 there's just
too many we haven't you haven't had i
love this the primogen said the best
thing you can do
to become a better engineer is time in
the saddle like time actually writing
code building stuff you haven't had
enough time in the saddle to see
everything
right that's a beautiful line
so you can't put that pressure on
yourself to say you know what i don't
know all the html tags you haven't built
enough stuff to know all the html tags
and then where i need you to think
is that it's completely normal
right it's completely normal right
it's completely normal to feel like you
don't understand all the javascript it's
completely normal to still be struggling
with css it's completely normal to not
know all the html tags even the folks
that are that are flexing on twitter
with the projects that they've done
there's still huge gaps they don't know
right like it's it's not
it's not
going to click
in
just the 15 classes that we had but what
i need you to realize
right what i need you
to realize
is that you can
and will be able to get there and do
this
i have seen
hundreds of folks
get jobs as a software engineer i've
taught thousands of folks to learn how
to code i've seen folks from every walk
of life with every struggle that you
could possibly think of
the folks that make it
manage their frustration they were
consistent
they took care of themselves and that
taking care of yourself
the taking care of yourself is not just
the hydration it's not the taking the
breaks it's not the letting your eyes
focus on something that's far away it's
not doing dr levi the fitness doctor's
exercises it's
letting yourself believe
that you're going to eventually get to
the promised land
that's the taking care of yourself
giving yourself
the belief
that with more time
and more effort i'll get there
right that's the taking care of yourself
that you need to be putting into
practice right now
no more
i'm lost you're not lost you're on a
journey it's gonna take you a little bit
longer to get to the promised land
all right
no more things aren't clicking no you
just you just haven't had enough time in
the saddle
all right it's not a you thing it's a
time thing so give yourself the time
believe in yourself that when you put in
the effort you'll get there and you will
now the thing that came up last class
was leon
all this stuff javascript doesn't make
sense css doesn't make sense html
doesn't make sense
how do you expect me to freelance
freelancing is the best thing
you can do if your javascript doesn't
make sense your css doesn't make sense
your html doesn't make sense freelancing
is literally the best thing you can do
because when there's money on the line
when there's a client that's expecting
value are you going to learn today
you're going to learn
today
there's nothing
more encouraging to get your butt
to put in the effort to understand
that when there's money accountability
and that there's somebody breathing down
your neck to get it done you're going to
learn guess what the javascript's going
to start clicking the css is going to
start clicking the html is going to
start clicking right because it has to
that's why we start freelancing
because it has to and guess what i
showed you that freelancing isn't
building beautiful stuff from scratch
you're using templates
every single person here knows how to
edit some html
you hear the connections being built in
your brain right everyone here knows how
to change a little bit of css
that's why we did what we did we covered
just enough html to be able to go into
templates and be dangerous to add their
company name to change their logo
then we covered just enough css to
change the colors to match their logo
then we cover just enough javascript so
that if they need something to be
clicked on or to make a form you can do
it because you have the ability to
you know enough to be dangerous
freelancing is what's going to set you
free and really help things to solidify
you learn when you build projects you
don't learn in this class
you don't learn from the homework you
learn by building the class and the
homework is to set you up
with just enough so that when you throw
yourself into projects you're not
completely lost in the ocean
right that's it that's why we do the
things we do that's why we move so
quickly from html we move so quickly
from css we move so quickly into
javascript is because your learning is
going to be in the projects and i got to
get you to the project as quickly as
possible
you're a software engineer
don't ever let anyone tell you otherwise
if you've written code you're a [__]
software engineer
we'll stop
put in the time put in the effort and
you'll get to where you want to go
and don't believe me go look at that
celebrations channel that celebrations
channel's been popping off folks getting
jobs left and right
that's going to be you
with more time in the saddle
your frustration be consistent and take
care of yourself not just physically
but mentally
you can do this
all right
we got some
some unfortunate stuff to talk about
before we get into class i know there's
a little bit a little bit more time than
i like to spend before getting into
into the actual topics this evening
but it's really important that i that i
bring this
up um
thanks dev um
i'm never going to text you call you
email you outside of the newsletter dm
you on discord or twitter i'm never
going to ask you for money scammers be
scamming they they're they're using the
my name the 100 devs hashtag just be
careful folks
just be careful
i'm not going to ask you to send me
amazon gift cards like just just use
some common sense and if you ever have
questions send us a mod mail on discord
i really appreciate when you share like
the scams that are happening that way i
can warn other folks that they're
happening
please let us know in a mod mail on
discord and i literally answer every
single question in the ask leon channel
so if you ever have doubts about
something just ask me in the ask leon
channel and you'll see that it's me
responding
right so don't don't
run out to
to
to do something confirm in the ask leon
channel first but i'm never going to
reach out to you on text call email
newsletter
i'm not going to dm you for stuff or
anything like that okay be careful ever
100 deaths no
wait you're telling me you didn't want
me to buy you elden ring and send it to
your address no please nope
people are scamming for domino's gift
cards yeah it's not me sorry folks
all right
we go get exactly
uh well i did a great time to answer
freelancing questions yeah we're gonna
we're gonna do like this sunday is gonna
be the most
we're gonna do we're gonna do a lot this
sunday and then i think we're gonna have
another we're gonna have another
freelancing session where we'll answer
the rest of the questions and stuff like
that yeah
cool
all right the next thing
and i don't even have i don't even want
to have to like this is so so dumb um
and this has just been so weird to deal
with so
let me start off by saying this please
don't ever
leave 100 devs and like
give someone hate or grief or it's just
it's just like that's not what we're
about right
it's just not what we're about so please
don't listen to this and i feel like you
have to do something that's not what i'm
saying please don't
i just need folks to know
that they don't get got
okay
so there are no other 100 devs classes
there are no other 100 devs teachers
other than myself
yet
okay
what happened
a couple a couple out i don't know why
like in the past 24 hours is we have a
lot of new folks that find us right and
a lot of new folks don't know
how to get started
or even when classes are happening so
they'll reach out to me on i get
hundreds of emails a day dozens of dms a
day and i try and answer as many of them
as i can but for some reason i started
getting messages saying hey leon i'm new
should i attend saturday's class
and i'm and i'm like
what
saturday's class i don't know what that
is then i got another one hey leon
should i attend saturday or monday's
class and i'm like i
i don't know what the [__] you're
talking about i wouldn't say that to
them but i don't know and i kind of was
just like all right maybe maybe language
barrier or something
and i kind of just moved on and then a
lot of you started sending me dms and
mod mail that there were people saying
that they were running 100 devs classes
there is no other class there is no
other 100 devs teachers
um
be careful
all right be careful
okay
there was somebody that was saying that
they're running hundred devs classes a
lot of folks
got got confused
they're not i've never heard of that
person
they've never even sent me a message
right and so i'm not going to say their
full name but
eric i have no idea who they are i don't
know what they're doing
i just had a lot of people reach out
that were kind of confused and so please
when you see this stuff
right don't don't
don't feed into it right
don't feed into it
right don't support these folks you you
know that there's something weird
happening right
don't don't feed into it don't spread
these folks it just makes it really hard
to do what we do and to get people into
the right places to get them the help
that they need right so please
when you see it don't don't send hate no
negativity but just don't engage
i i like looked into it and now they're
starting some other coding bootcamp it's
weird it's kind of disgusting they they
baited and switched a bunch of folks to
like get them to sign up from 100 devs
and now they're doing something else so
please
don't
do it it's just it just caused so much
headache uh so please be careful be safe
in these streets um
there is no class on
on saturday or monday
and if you're going to those things why
just leave 100 devs you're making it way
harder for other folks to join the
community and get the help that they
need
all right so please be careful now
i don't want to
end with that negative thing
because there are so many amazing people
that give up their time
right
to support you all to answer your
questions
to to to give you different perspectives
than i can give right i've been doing
this for a long time we need other folks
right we need other folks
that can show you what it's like to be a
beginner for the first time and so
last cohort we had amazing people that
stepped up to that plate
we had folks like dab who's in chat
right now that would stream hours and
hours a week just answering your
questions and working with others we
have occ our fearless mod
that would stream their perspective
right that would take time to get help
to help and so we have amazing folks
that are there to support that are
streaming that you can go to and get
help with
and then we have so many amazing folks
on discord right i wanted to shout out
mayan wolf
they've been popping off on discord
doing so many classes covering topics in
depth
the videos are amazing right like and
they're doing it
for the community by the community right
like
they've been here since the beginning
and they're helping right
we have 30 plus alumni mentors that
re-signed up to join
the affinity study communities to start
running
smaller individualized catch-up classes
and to start running individual time
where you can get more help and work
through problems together right so we
have all these people that are doing
amazing things that are trying to
support you we don't need our energy go
on the folks that are scamming so please
be careful keep your wits about you that
hashtag is not anything we have control
over
just be careful
cool
and i didn't want to have to say like
normally i let all this weird stuff
slide but when i have people reaching
out to me asking like should i go to
these classes and i'm like i have no
idea what they're talking about i feel
like i have to say something which is
weird
cool
so with that being said
with that being said uh i would love for
more folks to join the stream team
we're always looking for folks that want
to stream that want to share their
perspective that want to work through
class stuff that want to share how
they're going through the practice
problems and things like that so if you
think you got what it takes which is
just
like maybe a microphone
and a computer right and you want to
share your perspective and you would
like 100 devs folks to swing on by
fill out this form
we this upcoming week we're doing a lot
of networking
we are
onboarding a lot of mentors that want to
heart stop start helping you and we're
going to be kicking off this thing
called mentor mondays where we're
bringing folks and helping them skill up
to be helpful to the community and one
of those sessions that i'll be leaning
is like how to stream and how to help
others while you're streaming so if it's
something you're interested in you would
want to help others
while streaming
go ahead and fill out the form and then
i'll send you some information about
those those meetings
last cohort
the stream team did amazing things
there's no way that i can
help everyone or share different
perspectives or have the energy to
push everyone
at all these different time zones and
things like that so the stream team came
together and really did help a lot of
folks and so i would love to see that to
continue to grow with this cohort i
think we have a lot of really talented
folks
a lot of folks with patience that could
do really great things and i would love
to see you try
cool
you have to be super advanced to be on
the stream team absolutely not in fact
it's preferable
if you're just in the muck with folks
right it's so beautiful to see folks
struggle like it really is to see folks
struggle and to figure it out together
with the rest of 100 devs there's
nothing better than that so don't think
that you need to
come out of the gate swinging don't feel
like you have to be a super elite coder
no it's almost preferable that you're
just as lost in the sauce as everyone
else and you come together to work
through it
cool
so
uh is this the folks we see going
discord going live yeah so folks that
are in the stream team we can actually
see when they go live so you get
messages from me when i go live but
folks that are a part of the stream team
they can also send out those messages we
only send out one message we don't spam
you or anything like that
so it's cool that if you follow the
stream team channel you can see when
folks go live as well
cool
alrighty
how do we join there's this form here
uh you can go ahead and click on the
slides exclamation point slides if you
ever need the slides
i'll drop it in chat as well
there we go
mark sniffer said anyone else hearing
construction noises that's all the
neural connections being built in your
brain
i love the stream but i don't have the
time that's okay that's okay it's for
folks that want to
one of the beautiful things too about
streaming is that you get so much help
uh a lot of the folks that stream they
they just have regulars that are like
senior engineers that help them with
their projects and so yeah it's a cool
thing to do
i would love in the future that every
single day of the week there was a 100
devs member that was live
that we could all just go support get
help from and so that's that's one of my
like visions for the future i would love
um
if you could help me make that real
alrighty
one more thing we have to talk about
before we actually get started with
class and i know this has been like 45
minutes of ranting leon but it's
necessary
please be kind
i i don't realize that i have to say
this
but if you can't be kind
you have no place here at a hundred devs
you just you just don't i wish i wish
you would leave i really do
that's being kind to yourself it's being
kind to others it's being kind on
discord it's being kind on twitter
right
we have folks that sign up to share
their experience to give us the details
the goods things that you'll never see
anywhere else actual contracts actual
proposals
be considerate
don't test their sites
don't spam weird stuff in their forms
don't reach out to their clients don't
be weird
be kind be considerate realize that
they're actual humans behind the screen
and if we don't treat these people well
if we don't
mess with their if we mess with their
stuff nobody else is going to want to
share
either so please
be kind
rewind if you blockbuster
it's not me that's getting mad you hear
you the people up top are getting mad
too
alright
so please
when folks share stuff and we share it
live i know there's 4 000 of us but
don't be a jerk
don't blast their forms don't don't be
weird be kind or just leave
we don't need you here we really just
don't
now
let's end with a little
a little uh a little bit of a little bit
of a celebration
so
i said
last class
the best clip
would get a special color on discord uh
you're talking about the ultimate flex
well that is the color on discord uh we
have a beautiful bright yellow
right the the color of dreams
that only one person has right now
and so
if you make a clip and we pick the clip
as the best clip from the stream you get
a beautiful color on discord to stand
out to flex everyone's going to see you
it shows up on the categories on the
right hand side above pretty much
everyone else
you will be one of the fanciest folks on
discord and so last class uh we had a
winner uh and the winner is nicholas
1985.
uh they had an amazing clip
of i just giggled way too long uh blah
shared it with me too we were giggling
as well like uh they they it was a funny
clip now your clips they can be funny
they could be educational that's up to
you uh we'll be going with both so we'll
pick some educational ones we'll pick
some funny ones and so if you have the
best clip be mindful that the clip you
might need to you know get get the sweet
spot if you want it to be good right
timing counts and so
each stream after each stream i'll post
a thread or we might use slido so folks
can upvote them
i'll share a place for you to share your
clips and then the best one will get the
color on discord so nicholas i hope you
get the flex on discord with the color
uh it looks beautiful it's yellow by the
way beautiful yellow
let us see the clip if you click on the
uh
the link it'll take you to the clip um
i don't know if i can let you all hear
it
i have to do something weird for you all
to be able to hear it
but the clip is is a funny one
when we talk about the smell and it's
just perfectly timed so
go ahead and click on the link if you
want to see it i'll figure out how to
set up so you can hear them and maybe
we'll share them each class
cool all right folks
uh i'll share a place on discord after
each class
all right
next before we jump into our review we
gotta talk about what's next uh like i
said next week is going to be a little
odd we're going to have a lot of
networking a lot of getting to hang out
with each other to build and you have a
lot of homework
after that we're going to start to pick
up the pace a little bit when it comes
time to class time so these classes will
start to be a little less review a
little bit more going deeper with topics
just as we get comfortable with
javascript because we want to stay with
javascript for a while right so just
know that that's coming next week is all
about networking getting together or
like getting times to to feel good with
the topics that were covered and then
we're gonna start pushing we're gonna
start pushing going deeper with some
more javascripty stuff
as we get through next week things like
your networking become a priority daily
coding challenges come a priority so
please get mentally ready next week's a
good week and then we're going to start
to try and
put up a little bit just a little bit
cool
let's jump right into it folks we got a
lot to review today
golden rule separation of concerns we
keep our content in our html our style
and our css and our behavior javascript
why
organization exactly beautiful
we talked about ids and classes if
you're new we're going through this
really fast we have tons of other
classes on youtube where we go into
these topics in detail
ideas enable us to target one thing and
only one thing
classes enable us to target multiple
elements at the same time so we get the
ability to target one thing or multiple
things and when it comes to javascript
we use them a lot
cool programming
programming remember
computer will do what you tell it to do
and so a program
is simply a set of instructions that you
write to tell a computer what to do and
therefore the act of programming is
simply writing those instructions
uh what language are we using to write
our instructions folks
we have another way of writing
instructions too yes javascript is the
answer we have another way of writing
instructions what's the other way that
we could write instructions that we all
know how to do right now
yeah pseudo code exactly we can always
write our instructions in just plain
language and then later on come back and
find the bits and bobs the pieces that
we need so when you're sitting down to
solve a coding challenge and you don't
know what code to use
start with your pseudo code try and
explain what you want to have happen
right
talk to a duck talk to a bob figure out
what you want to have happen and don't
worry about the syntax right away
cool
why is independence day a true story
yeah bob there we go
binary upload boom right the aliens
attacked
jeff goldblum saved the world by writing
a computer program that infected the
alien mothership all their shields went
down we nuked them america
right that's a true story because even
though it was an alien language we could
reverse engineer it break it all the way
down to the machine code all the way to
the binary on and off are probably a
universal constant we could build it
back up the simple logic from that
simple logic up to something that the
machines can understand all the way back
up to a language that we can affect the
alien mothership with
beautiful
so the beauty of writing
javascript is that we don't have to
worry about
breaking it all the way down to
something that a computer can understand
things in the background handle that for
us and as we get deeper into the cohort
we'll learn about what's actually
happening in the background that's
taking our javascript and making it so
that the computer can understand it but
for right now we don't have to focus on
that we're just worried about
communicating our ideas and
understanding what the heck's going on
i don't know if you can hear that
all righty
all right
variables
totally signed all right i was just
jamming out no worries
uh variables what are variables chat
what are variables
didn't hear but we felt it i love it
they're data buckets exactly
variables
are a way for us to tell our program to
use something later on it's an entity
that we use to store a value and then we
can use that value later on
beautiful
now
variables we have two steps we have the
declaration and the assignment
right
we have the declaration and the
assignment uh with the declaration step
we can create that bucket in memory that
we can eventually put stuff into
assignment is the step of putting stuff
into
that bucket so here we see declaration
and assignment at the same
time
beautiful when we're typing out our
variables i like to use a convention
called camelcase right
and that camel case is where the first
word is lowercase and every other word
is capitalized it's up to you what type
of convention you use just be consistent
alrighty
we talked about two major kinds of data
so far
what types of data we talked about so
far folks
yeah strings and numbers great we've
actually seen one other one though too
we've talked about strings and numbers
we've seen one other
in passing anybody no yeah booleans
exactly like true or false values
wonderful
now the quirk about strings is whatever
quotes you use on the outside you can't
use on the inside unless you what
you can't use the same quotes on the
outside as you do on the inside unless
you do what to those quotes
yeah you escape them exactly
one second folks
all right
welcome back folks sorry no no that was
that wasn't bob
it wasn't bob though the maintenance
person i was just leaving they had just
fixed our air conditioner i was just
saying thank you
and trying to give them fruit but they
didn't want any of my fruit
oh we gotta hydrate thank you for the
hydration
boozy thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
alrighty
let's get into it so i didn't see the
responses here as well make sure we got
it we can have the same quotes on the
outside
versus the inside but we can't have the
same quotes on the insides we have on
the outside unless we do what
escape them exactly
wonderful all right
so far we've also seen numbers remember
numbers can be integer values or floated
values
we can have signed values positive or
negative
and then we can also do arithmetic
plus for addition hyphen for subtraction
multiplica asterisk for multiplication
four slash for division and percent for
modulus
well yeah my food came can we pause
lecture
hold on all right let's everybody take a
pause real quick um
major's food just got here
let's go ahead and stop we're going to
take our break when we come back from
break
uh we are going to work through variable
fun time together so
when we come back from break we're going
to
work through some code we're going to
actually put variables in the practice
so if you're having trouble with
variables when we come back from break
we get lots of hands on keyboard
practice
major enjoy your food let's put five
minutes on the timer
there we go
all right five minutes on the clock we
come back we're getting right into
writing some code folks
thank you i will run run the ad so folks
don't have to get stuck with them while
we're while we're teaching so five
minutes on timer if you're new here
please get up hydrate stretch if you're
able let your eyes focus on something
that's far away and then we'll be back
together in a quick five minutes we're
gonna run three minutes of ads uh so
take a break see you soon
no two minutes on the timer let's bump
it hold on
there we go seven minute timer folks
enjoy
see a bit
so
you
oh man i'm not used to this
extra timer
how do i feel about recruiters
uh some of them are worth their weight
in gold and some of them
aren't
you know
i found an article mentioning mdm might
be going paid that's wild no i think
they're like one of the best open source
projects
what do you feel about people getting
isas or boot camps offering them i
thought we got rid of indentured
servitude a long time ago
the thing is with the isas they don't
actually care about the investment of
the student
the people that did the biggest isas
were bucketing the isas and then selling
them to management consulting for like
management foreign management firms and
then like packaging them as like one
like that obligation
isa is an income service agreement or
income share agreement or income share
agreement where like you you you go
through a boot camp
with no money down but then you owe them
a big part of your check afterwards
there's just so many free ways to learn
how to code that it doesn't really make
a lot of sense
you have the odin project you have free
code camp you have us there are so many
other boot camps too that are like
online now too so
it just seems odd
and some folks will make the argument
well i want like personalized attention
and like job placement but none of those
boot camps actually do that
once you like talk to people that
actually went through them
it is jason it is
dragon i love recursion i think it's
once you once you figure it out it's
kind of spiffy
what level in code word should be good
enough to feel comfortable for technical
interviews i think once you can reliably
do a six
every once in a while you you're past
the point of where you should have been
starting to
apply
remember half the folks that applied
half the folks i got jobs didn't have
technical interviews at all last cohort
i needed those two minutes hey i'm glad
thanks indifferent
well said i got two job offers and
accepted one of them hey congrats
did the transition at 30 from ireland
congrats that's huge
oh what's the six people i was wondering
i didn't know what people were talking
about i was like drake is drake here
um no a six so in code wars which are
like coding challenges there's levels
and they liken them to like levels like
if you're like doing martial arts and so
there's different like belts basically
and the easiest ones or the ones
everyone starts with are eight
and then you go from eight all the way
down to ones and then there's like
master levels
um
and so
i think most folks that can get to like
doing all the eight sevens and reliably
like do sixes are like super ready to
start interviewing um they already have
enough skills to interview
cool
all right folks welcome back hope you
had a good break major i hope you got
your food let's get into it we have this
variable fun time so
let's go ahead
you have this js file here
and
inside the js file for variable fun time
there are a couple different things for
us to do so there's something is as
on the easier side which is creating a
variable and assigning it we have some
medium and then we have some hard so get
as far through these as you can and then
we're going to go over each of them
together so i'm gonna put
five minutes on the timer here get as
far in with these five minutes as you
can
and then we'll go over them together
have at it
oh yeah hey glad you're glad you're here
ck
well you're in the right spot we've got
lots of practice tonight so try these
practice problems and we're going to go
over them together if you're really
stuck on them you don't know what to do
hang out chill hydrate we'll go over
them together and try to push yourself
to understand as we go over them
this is the variable fun time files
variable fun time
and for folks that are new if you need
the materials you got to join our
discord
agree to the rules once you agree to the
rules you'll see all the channels open
up well you've got to join 100 devs and
then you'll see all the channels open up
there's a follow-on materials channel
that has the starter code for today
if you still have a gray name on discord
it means you haven't joined 100 devs go
ahead and do that and you'll see all the
other channels open up for you
51 ttv uh yeah some folks they they like
to
[Music]
to to do the homework as soon as sorry
the classwork as soon as it's posted
don't don't let that get you they're
they're they're doing the most
love me some ddr
i missed the hydrate no i got uzi's
hydrate
i got uzi there's no other ones today
when do we need a semicolon you don't
really need them as much anymore with
the newer versions of javascript you can
do exclamation point semicolon uh and
then you can read an article on
why in all the details favorite ddr song
when the saints go marching in
like by far
i can i can i could probably just stand
up and do it without needing to hear or
see the song
how many channel plays for you to do ddr
i don't i don't know there's enough
that's only fans content for sure
all the h1 just means i want you to put
whatever's in the h1 in like a variable
all right two minutes folks
how much time in subbing to one mill i'm
not sure that'd be good to figure it out
mdn plus is what was being mentioned
earlier i haven't heard of that yet i'll
look it up after class
got some folks finishing got some dones
coming in at a reasonable time good to
see
two bites said i'm in tears i can't
believe i'm done i know jsa let's go
turn up
maribel gg maribel thank you so much for
hydration cheers to you
monty give us a refresh sometimes that
gets rid of the the stuttering for you
patchy done for the first time with the
time limit love to see it
struggling with this one don't worry
we're gonna go over everything together
what system do you recommend for online
ordering for restaurants uh depends on
what they need like setting them up with
like ubereats could be a way as well you
know
there's also a platform something 24
which is really popular a little while
back
alrighty folks come on through come on
through
all right let's go over this together
let's chill the music
all right
so close hey feel hyped i'd love to see
it
ciao now exactly one of our 100 days
alumni is at chow now now so let's let's
throw chow now up they they hire 100
devs folks so yeah i think chow now be
good for restaurants i like that
cool
all right create a variable and assign
it a number let's go ahead and create a
variable and assign it a number and we
see we're going to do some stuff to that
number so if we know that we're going to
do some stuff to that number
should we use let or const chat
let or const
yeah we're going to use let if we know
that we weren't going to ever make
changes to it we're going to we weren't
going to reassign it we could use cons
but we definitely know we're going to
reassign this one so we'll use let and
then if we're if we're using numbers
what do we think is a good variable name
yeah like num or number would be a good
variable name let's go ahead and set
number to one so we created a variable
and we assigned it the value of one
now we're going to minus 10 from that
number so let's do 10
we can do num equals num minus 10.
that's a way of doing it right you could
have just then the number minus 10.
remember right now it's one
minus 10. so what will we get here
what would we expect
negative nine exactly and so the last
step here is print that number to the
console so whenever we talk about
printing to the console we mean a
console log and so we're going to go
ahead and just put
num
in here now
can i can i just can we just can i blow
your mind just for a brief second here
i don't know if people have noticed this
yet let's see let's see if this works
first and then i'm going to come back
and blow your mind all right let's see
if this works
all right i'm going to open up the html
file in the browser
and i'm going to open up my inspector
go to my console and we can see negative
nine in the console right we did it
right we did one minus ten which gave us
negative nine
right
now
when i look at this console log this is
what enabled me to put that value
into the console
if we just look at this right here
ignore the console
you just look at this right here what
does that look like
what is that
what if i just highlight it
it's a function call exactly
it's a function call
remember that that's that's calling a
function called log now did we did we
create a function called log
no that's built into javascript so
technically this is a method that we'll
get to later on but the cool thing is
that you've been using these functions
you might not even know they were
functions and so if log is a function
what does that make num right now
what is num on line seven
it's an argument exactly it's an
argument it's the thing that we're
passing into that log function so
as we kind of go deeper we're gonna
start to see these patterns show up over
and over and over again so even though
we're using console logs we're still
using the stuff that we learned when it
came time to write functions
all right create a variable that holds a
value from the input
create a variable that holds a value
from the input so
if we want to create a variable that
holds a value from the input what should
we call it what's a what's a what's a
good variable for a variable that holds
from the input
yeah inputed val so let's go ahead and
do let
input it
val
and we'll set it equal right we'll set
it equal to
uh the value that's in the input let's
go and see what the input name was
all right
our input
id is dance dance revolution so let's go
ahead and just copy that
right
and i'm going to go ahead here and say
all right let's go to the document right
remember we're always going to go look
at this dom the rendering of our html
and css that's we're going to go and
grab the things that we want to target
we're going to use query selector right
query selectors enable us to look at
that dom and grab the bits that we want
and the bits that we want is whatever
has the id
of dance dance revolution
right
now once we have dance dance revolution
how do we get the value out of it
yeah value exactly
we'll do that value wonderful what this
should do
is it should get the value
out of the input
right
and store it
in the variable of inputted val great
let's add 25 to this number so we're
gonna do input it
val
equals
input it
val
plus
25.
what did i do wrong
spelling exactly look the variable name
is inputted vowel and i just did input
vowel so we gotta be careful
you gotta make sure you don't have typos
we could have also done this a little
bit differently some other folks might
have may have done this like input it
val
plus equals 25 that's also the same way
of doing it uh it's just a slightly
different syntax to add 25
right
and the last thing you want to do is
alert that number let's go ahead and
alert the number alert
and we're going to pass in input it
val
alert is a what
it's a function but it's built in right
it's built in we didn't create a
function called alert it was built in so
it's technically a method method is just
like a for now
a method is a function tied to an object
or in this case functions that are just
like built in so technically it's a
function but also technically it's a
method for right now we haven't gotten
to objects yet so we're just going to
call them functions for now but we
didn't create it it's something that was
built into javascript that we got to use
and this right here is not technically a
function it's a function call
right it's a function call
right and so that means we're passing in
a value
and that value is our argument
cool
and we're doing a little extra here with
the alerts but i think it's something
cool to see that like wait a minute with
just the base stuff that you've already
learned you can start to see the
patterns that build up throughout
javascript
cool
all right let's see if this works
let's refresh
all right we see 25
all right we see 25 in the alert so it's
working for now because there's nothing
in there is nothing in the in the input
but we're going to see something
right we're going to see something in a
second the 25 is showing up right 25 is
showing up so it's kind of working let's
keep pushing here
all right
why is it an argument and not a
parameter because we're calling the
function
if we were to create a function called
alert
right
right then whatever was there would be
the parameter right and then we could
use that parameter inside the function
right but it's not a function
declaration
it's a function call we're calling the
function alert and so when you call a
function you're passing in the arguments
right now somewhere deep in javascript
right somewhere deep in javascript is a
function called alert that we didn't
write somebody else wrote and that's why
we're able to use it that's why we're
able to call it same thing with the the
log in console log we didn't write
somebody else wrote it and we can still
call those functions even though we
didn't write them
cool
last one here
yeah so
ox said someone calling a function it's
called an argument exactly remember we
call mom to argue so whenever you're
calling a function it's an argument but
when you're doing the declaration it's a
parameter exactly
call mom to argue
right call mom to argue whenever you're
calling a function it's an argument
beautiful
all right hard
create a variable that holds the h1
all right so let's go ahead and create a
variable
um
we'll go ahead and say
i don't think we're going to ever like
reassign something that's holding the h1
so we'll just say const
and we're going to call it h1
right and then well we'll say h1 from
the dom
h1 dom or h1 holder i like holder h1
holder there we go
cool h1 holder and so we're going to go
to the dom go to the document
use our query selector
and
if we look at the h1
there's no id or anything so we don't
need to worry about like an id or a
class here there's only one h1 on the
page
probably will only be one h1 on the page
unless they know about the new sections
and the sections having their own h1s
but for now not to worry about that we
don't use an idea class we can just use
the tag inside a query selector and now
h1 holder
is holding
the h1
right
it's holding the h1 and the beautiful
thing now is that we can reuse this over
and over and over again without having
to
retype this out every single time so now
when we get to the event listener
add an event listener so that the
element that console logs the sum of the
two previous variables interesting
what i want to do add an event listener
like a smurf that's going to listen for
a click
right
add an event listener that element
that console logs the sum of the two
previous variables
so i am going to
create an event listener
h1 holder so i'm going to say when you
click on the h1
all right i'm going to go ahead and say
add event listener
and i'm going to say a click so when
they click on the h1 i want to run a
function called
uh sum
right here we go
so when i
click
on the h1
run the function sum now
do we have a function called sum yet
no
somebody said don't you need a button to
click no we can actually click on
anything that's in the dom so anything
is clickable with javascript
if you're like like after school special
anything's clickable with javascript
right and so we're just going to click
on the h1 right there we go so
h1 holder is holding our h1
and so i'm going to add my smurf or my
click event to that h1 holder right and
when i hear that click when that smurf
here's the click we want to run that
function sum but we don't have it yet so
let's go ahead and create the function
function sum
and we are going to
console.log
the sum of the two previous variables so
the two previous va
variables were num
and inputed value
let's try this
let's console.log
num
plus
input it
value
right if we look
look we had the original variable num
that's holding negative nine
and then we have this inputted value
that's holding plus 25
and then down here
we're adding a smurf that's going to
click
on our h1
right
and we're just we have a simple sum
right let's go ahead when we click on
the h1 run this function called sum
here's the function called sum we're
going to console.log num plus input
value so
let's save this let's play with it let's
see if it actually works let's save
go back to the browser here let's
refresh
we have our alert which is still there
and then nothing
nothing
why nothing
nothing happened there's nothing in
there there's nothing in the
console log i saved i refresh nothing in
the console.log yeah i gotta click
remember
we put
this function this function only runs
when there's a click so we gotta click
let's go ahead and click
here we go
negative 925
wait a minute
negative 9 25.
what the heck just happened
yeah chad's got it it concatenated what
what do i heck what the heck do i mean
by saying it concatenated
yeah it's a string right now if we look
look at even look at it even at the
colors
the number is like this nice purple but
the strings are this white color
so what happened is it took that
negative nine and it exactly it smushed
the 25 together negative 9 smushed the
25 together and now we got negative 925
as a string
right so let's go back and see if we can
figure out where this happened
all right
start off with one
one equals one minus ten so we know that
num so one minus ten
this is negative nine num becomes
negative nine and we constant log
negative nine then
we go and get the value out of the input
and we add that value to 25.
wait a minute
was there ever a value in the input
like if we look
we grabbed the value out of the input
and we added it to 25.
there was never anything in that
value
so what it actually is is an empty
string
since there was no value it was an empty
and so what actually happens on this
line is we grab the value but it's an
empty string
and then inputed value
is actually
empty string
and so what we wind up doing is
25 plus
empty
string
what happens
when you add a number
to an empty string
what happens
it became a string it turned it into a
string exactly it became a string and so
that oddness happened and that's why
down here we're not dealing with number
25 we're dealing with
string
number 25. like down here we're actually
dealing with this
right and if we took
number actually at negative 9.
so when we do negative 9 plus string 25
we wind up with
negative 9 25.
so we need to figure out a way
to get around this javascript weirdness
when people say javascript is weird this
is one of the things that they're
talking about right so
we can go back let's let's clean up our
examples here
all right
this input valve we know is going to be
a string so we can do something here we
can go ahead and wrap this in
number
you might have seen this from the
reading you might have heard of parse
int you might have heard of parse float
you might have seen number right these
are all that ways of getting a number
value out of a string let's go ahead and
save this
let's go back and see what we get now
all right
let's click
boom now we're getting the 16
right
now we're getting the 16
right the negative 9 plus 25
right because
down here
we're using this number
to pull the value that the number value
out of the string
right and now we're dealing with two
numbers so we can do
our addition
could you also add arguments to the sum
function you could if you wanted to but
not as we have it set up because right
now we don't have any parameters set up
for it and we don't really pass
arguments within the event listener
we can but it's weird
could you get it to do a character turn
as well as a click yeah with an actual
form uh you can set it up to do key
presses you can set up for submit so
there's all these different events that
you could use that are not just clicks
yeah there's exactly there's a bunch of
ways to do this you can go about this in
different ways but this is a good walk
through so we saw a couple different
things here we saw variables creating
them
subtracting
adding to them we saw the ability to set
up an event listener we saw the ability
to call a function and we learned about
concatenation
and how it can mess up our math
it'd be the same c see the light it'd be
the same thing but parseint instead of
number same deal
scaler said it's not taking the value of
the input true
when does it get the value out of the
input let's look at this let's think
through this real quick before we move
on
all right we click
on the h1 holder which is the h1 right
and then we run this function
when the heck did it actually get the
value out of the input
when did it get the value out of the
input
yeah
on page load as soon as the page load
line loaded line 10 ran
so it got the value out of the input
when the input was just sitting there
being empty
this input
is not inside of our function
right it's not inside of our function so
it's running on page load uh we could do
something let's comment this out
let's take this value here let's let's
bring it down here
right
let's bring it down here
and now
right
now
it'll get the value
out of the input only
once we've clicked on the h1
right so instead of it being up here and
running instantly
right
what do i mean by page load ready three
two one refresh that's page load soon as
soon as i hit refresh the page load it
right
and before
since our
getting the value of the input was just
out there it wasn't inside the click
event or anything like that it was
getting it as soon as the page loaded
right
so now
let's go ahead and put a value in here
we know that the other value is negative
nine so let's make this nine
and click
and we get zero
right we know that since the the
num was negative nine
and the value that we put in the input
was nine we should get
zero right
and so let's go ahead and try something
else let's put in
19 and we should get 10.
all right
oh we got 10. and now the cool thing is
we can reuse this over and over again we
can we can keep putting in new numbers
and we don't have to just wait for it on
page load
why does it ignore the 25 now
because we commented it out
we got re-commented out
can we put the sum function's content
directly in the event listener yeah you
could there's a way to put
an anonymous function up here
so that it's all just inside the event
listener but that makes it a little bit
harder to read and so that's why i
separated out the function
from the event listener
it makes a little bit harder to read
do we still need number now
i like to leave number here because
whenever i'm dealing with
inputs i like to what we call sanitize
my inputs i don't want there ever to be
like strings or guessing so i'll just
leave number for now and that way i know
that i'm always dealing with numbers
right i don't worry about if there's a
string or not right you can you can just
do it
cool all right let's keep pushing folks
and as always i'll always share my
solutions after class
all right
js is so weird i agree there's some
quirks to it but the quirks can be
really freeing once you once you know
them
you gotta hydrate
from dreamwork baby hey thank you so
much cheers to you
alrighty let's keep pushing folks
talked about making decisions
right and when we make decisions we're
trying to evaluate
if the value inside the parentheses
is true or not if the value is true
we do what is inside of the curly braces
right
now to make decisions we have to
understand how we compare stuff in
javascript not only can we compare
numbers but we can also compare things
like strings to each other
and we can do things like having our
logical operators where we can say all
right with two equal signs chat what am
i looking at with two equal signs i'm
comparing what
value exactly and with three equal signs
i'm comparing what
value and type exactly so
one equal sign is always assignment like
you're creating a variable
two you're comparing just the type sorry
yeah the value and then three is the
value and type
one is assignment not comparison
two is value three is value and type so
we have this really weird one right here
there's this really weird one right here
right where we have x equals three we
know that x is number three
so my question to you does number three
equals string three in value and type
no
they're equal in value they're both
three but one is a number and one is a
string beautiful
now once we can do these comparisons we
can introduce our conditional syntax we
can have an if
if what is inside the if is true we do
what's inside those curly braces and we
stop
if not we move on to the else if and see
if that is true if it's true
we stop
right
then if the if and the else ifs are not
working
we can always have an else that just
automatically runs right it's um
it's it's uh
it doesn't need to check anything it'll
just run and the beautiful thing is you
can have as many else ifs as you would
like
wonderful
some folks got bingo
exclamation point bingo
made by
dab who's on the stream team and cross
cool
here's our example that we always like
to use
pizza equals dominoes so does pizza
equal papa john's no that's false it'll
never be true
pizza does equal dominos so that is true
which means we do it inside these curly
braces all aboard the train the flavor
town and does the else ever run
does the else ever run here
nah why are we talking down papa john's
because they suck
the only negativity we're allowed on
this stream is negativity towards papa
jones
all
right what's the danger of assignment
versus comparison
yeah if you're inside
if you're inside a conditional and you
use one equal sign by accident it won't
evaluate true or false it's just going
to be true because the reassignment is
true
that's another javascript quirk so be
careful when you're doing your
conditionals always make sure you're
using two or three equal signs
remember you can do multiple conditions
so in this condition both of these must
be true
name must equal leon and status must
equal ballen if both of these are
actually true
get a lovely wink at the camera then we
come back to class
you can also have multiple conditions
that are or right where just one of them
has to be true so is the day saturday or
is the day sunday as long as one of
these is true
you're all good
all right
let's go ahead we're going to build out
an age checker so let's go to the age
checker code
and
we have html and some javascripts
and here we go
create a conditional that checks their
age
if they are under 16 tell them they
cannot drive
under 18 they can't hate from outside
the club because they can't even get in
uh under 21 tell them they can't drink
under 25 tell them they can't rent cars
affordably under 30 tell them they
cannot rent fancy cars affordably and if
over 30 tell them there's nothing left
nothing left to look forward to
okay
all right so let's put five minutes on
the clock
five minutes on the clock well sorry in
the us you could still become president
right come on now
all right five minutes in the clock
and there is a harder section for folks
that want to push
five minutes on the clock you got this
have at it
starter code is in the follow along
materials channel on our discord
exclamation point uh discord if you need
it
just to be fair i'm over 30.
this this is my personal reflections not
something i'm putting out on the world
all right folks you got this dig deep
i'm over 30 hundred dozen give me
something to look forward to let's go
faye i love
that diff chris said it's also a
javascript exercise not life advice
address that true
when will you switch from cs go to valor
at never
morning flow
no idea even how to begin look at the
conditional from the other from the
slides
you could literally just copy and paste
the conditional from the slides and get
started
replace papa john's and pizza with an
age
you got this folks dig deep
and don't worry we'll go over it all
together
will you consider playing elden ring in
the future i've never really got into
those types of games before like the
dark souls and stuff like that
what back-end skills do we need before a
coding interview
i feel like most folks open up most
opportunity by being able to build a
full stack app so once you have one of
those underneath your belt it opens up a
wide range of jobs and makes your
interview process easier
separate codes are one big if else
statement yeah go for a big elf it's a
if else statement
how many else's can we have yeah it is
really unlimited eventually there's
other things like case statements which
makes it a little bit easier but
now go wild
are we going to learn data structures
and algorithms of course but much later
on
when it comes time to actually start
interviewing we'll get into all that
stuff
[Laughter]
millie made added two minutes to the
timer folks so when we get down to one
minute we'll change this to three
can you explain one more time the
difference between a parameter and an
argument an argument is what you pass in
when you're trying to tell the function
to run
and the parameters are what are set up
when you're declaring the function so
like you have like the function and you
type it out you say this is what the
setup this is what the function is going
to do
all the stuff that's inside the actual
function what you tell it to do those
are parameters when you tell it to run
you pass in arguments
remember you call your mom to argue
all right oop that changes to three
minutes there we go
nearly uh put an extra two minutes on
the timer
e right said the bucket analogy held so
much to explain parameters hey glad it
worked
what if we get a freelance client that
requests a mobile app leave room both in
time and money uh you'll eventually know
how to use react native to build apps
you could do that to build mobile apps
or you could bring someone on that could
help you with the mobile app build
steph hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
philippe go ahead you can mute the
stream while you're working on this
stuff
i'll leave the timer up so you can come
back to it you'll see the timer go off
there's two different sets of slides
there's live slides which you can't
control and then the regular deck which
you can
oh yeah i messed up if under over 30 i
don't know what that means if over 30.
there we go
as you can see i was copying and pasting
actually we can leave it if under over
30. it's an actual interesting thing to
think about
maybe you could do exclamation point
slides
hey akachi congrats
newton i think most folks do
sorry grinder
me too sage
all right folks let's get into this
alrighty let's go through it together
all right let's start off with the under
16.
we're gonna start off with an if
and we're gonna say all right well
actually we need like a variable for age
let's start with age first so let's do
let
age equal and we'll just start off with
17 so we can see some things at first
all right so
if
age
is what
if age is what
how can we type this out
i'm proud i got this hey you should be
yeah age is less than 16. there we go if
age is less than 16 boom all right so if
age is less than 16 we can go ahead and
do our console log
and our console log should tell them
they cannot drive there you go
they cannot drive let's go ahead let's
put it in here
boom they cannot drive
now
we don't do an if again we can do an
elsif else if
there we go and this time we'll say age
is less than
18 right because we said if under 18
right so if under 18 tell them
uh
they can't hate from outside the club
because they can't even get in exactly
true or words have never been spoken
let's go and do the log
there we go
let's put in they can't even hate from
outside the club they can't even get in
oh but we run into an issue here
trying to say i'm trying to type this
out but i run into an issue what issue
did i just run into if we look you see
like it kind of like changes color here
it's the text that you're yelling yeah i
use single quotes on the outside
so i can't do the contraction on the
inside unless i was to escape there we
go i'm going to escape them could also
use double quotes on the outside that
would have worked too
but i like to keep my coats consistent
and i'll just escape the contractions
inside beautiful and let's do one more
elsif before we take a look and make
sure things are working remember you
always want to try stuff before you get
too deep
let's go ahead and do age is less than
and we say 21
and if that is true we can go ahead and
do our console log
and we'll paste in
uh
they cannot drink there we go beautiful
copy
let's put it in here
beautiful they cannot drink all right so
let's save this and see what we get
coming up in the console first
let's do the index.html it's going to
open this in the browser
beautiful let's open up our inspector
and we look at the console we can see
they can't even hate from outside the
club because they can't get in if we ask
for age we can see that our age is 17
right so that makes sense
at 17 were they under 16
nope
all right
were they under 18
yep
and so this becomes
thank you different right so this
becomes
right this becomes true
17 is less than 18. so since this is
true
we console log they can't even hate from
outside of the club because they can't
get in and then this elsif never runs
just doesn't run
right and so some folks are saying like
why not just do a bunch of ifs
well each if
is evaluated separately
right so we did an if so if we if we
give me a little bit of freedom here for
a second if we did this
well now
each of these ifs are gonna run
separately let's save this and see what
happens
let's refresh three two one
all right now we're seeing they can't
hate from outside the club because they
can't even get in and we're seeing they
can't they cannot drink right the reason
being
is 17 less than 18
yes
is 17 less than 21
right so if we wanted it to actually
stop at this first true statement
we have to do elsifts
if we do individual ifs it's going to
evaluate all of these because it's still
technically true
17 is less than 18. 17 is less than 21
but when you use the elsif's it stops at
the first true statement
cool
let's bring that back
beautiful all right let's keep tacking
these on here we can do our next elsif
and i'm gonna i'm just gonna set up a
couple of l-stiffs here just so that we
can uh we need
one two three more
all right so let's just copy let's do at
least two more
boom
boom all right so if age is less than
and we're gonna say in that case
they cannot rent cars affordably it's
true if you're under 25 it's hard to
rent cars affordably
cool
and then if you're under 30
it's hard to rent fancy cars
affordably
it won't give you the insurance
cool
and then we're saying if under
over
30.
it's a weird statement if under over 30.
when i say if under over
to me that just means as long as it's
not equal to 30.
all right like as long as it's under
right
or over
but not equal so let's let's try that
let's do
if age is less than 30
or
age is over
right
so that would completely ignore 30 right
they say like hey if you're if you're
less than 30 or over 30 or we don't even
need the or statement right like we can
just say all right since this is less
than 30 and this is over 30
right
there's there's no way that it could be
30.
right so let's go ahead and say
there's nothing left to look forward to
and different saved us there there is
stuff to look forward to if you're over
30 you got 100 devs to look forward to
what are we talking about
all right
let's save this and let's change age to
30.
let's save it let's go back
and what do we expect to happen
what do we expect to happen here
let's refresh
nothing happened
why is nothing happening
nothing happens right because if age is
none of these statements are true
it's not less than 30 it is 30 and it's
not greater than 30 it is 30. so what if
we wanted this last one to include 30
what could we do
what could we do to include 30
yeah we do less than or equal to
right
less than or equal to 32 we're going to
say there's nothing left to look forward
to
which
is a lie
all right
lie
we got 100 devs
there we go let's save it let's see what
we get
oh there we go now it's including
that 30.
beautiful
alrighty let's keep it moving folks keep
it moving we got a lot of practice to
get through before loops
all right chat what's the best tv show
of all time mods get ready with the
hammer
all right bachelor thank you
2013 toyota prius thank you
i'm leading off the
the
username sometimes nice
it is the bachelor wonderful now what
the heck are functions you all were all
over the bachelor what the heck are
functions you were all quick with the
bachelor you're like but what are
functions
instructions exactly yes that makes me
so happy
instructions functions are just sets of
instructions wonderful remember
functions are simple set of instructions
they ideally are reusable right the idea
the reason why we put our code into
functions is that we can reuse that
function over and over again without
having to re-type out all of those
instructions
um
typically we'll eventually get to a best
practice where they really do one thing
and one thing really well but we're not
there yet your functions can be bloated
in the beginning
and people often refer to them as the
building blocks of your program now
remember
when it comes to functions
there are two very specific things
we have the function declaration
where we're putting those sets of
instructions into memory so that we can
reuse them over and over and over again
and then we have the call
which is telling those functions to run
so in my brain
there is a function called a clap
i know how to clap
right i i don't i i know that it's my
two hands coming together to make a
sound that function is declared and as
in memory in my brain
now
if i want it to happen it's always there
right i'm always walking around right
that function is always in memory i just
don't have to use it
right i don't have to use it until i
want it and so down here i'm going to
call
the function clap right i'm going to
call function clap boom
i just clap
i called the function i'm going to call
it again
i'm going to call it again and again and
again and again and again and again and
again and again again and again again
again again again right the idea is that
i can
put a set of instructions into my brain
take right hand take left hand bring
them together with speed right all of
those instructions are part of the
clapping function and i can reuse it
over and over and over and over again
cool
now
when we are calling our functions
we have the ability
to pass values in
right
we have the
we have the ability to
pass things in uh junior 51 ttv said can
we pause for five minutes i gotta go
walk my pet goldfish i'll be right back
let me finish this little bit right here
and then we'll uh we'll go let you walk
your pet goldfish all right uh so
let's finish this and then we'll take
our our break the walk the goldfish i
got you don't worry
all right
so
here we have a function call we're
trying to tell this function here to run
do your thing
right do your thing
and so what i'm going to do here is i'm
going to pass in
the string of hello
right
what
do we call this string
an argument yes remember this is a call
so we call mom to argue we're passing an
argument
and this argument falls into
the bucket we set up here called word
right it's a bucket
that we call word
all right and so hello falls into that
bucket of word and wherever i see word
wherever i see word it's now hello
now a lot of folks get confused on this
they're like leon why the heck
do we need these parameters are these
buckets
well it makes your functions reusable
each time you call your mom to yell you
might yell something different you might
yell hello you might yell goodbye and by
having these arguments and parameters
enables us to change up what we yell
each time it was just to change up what
we passed into our functions each time
right
quick it could be yeah
all right
let's look stop yelling at your mom i
don't yell my mom trust me
um
next here we have the same function yell
but now
this function has two what
this function is two what
yes two parameters it now has two things
that can that can be held and be used
anywhere inside this function
so the very first one i'm passing in
is hello
so hello
is going to fall into the bucket of word
wherever i see word now it is
hello
i'm going to pass in goodbye is an
argument
goodbye gets passed into the bucket
of other word
wherever i see other word
it is now
goodbye
right
and the beauty of this is that we could
change these to be different values we
could say
more
and
hot pockets
right and so now the first
more will be passed into word and the
first thing we would we would alert
would be more
and then the second thing we could pass
in
would be hot pockets and so then the
second we would say is hot
pockets
now this first alert would yell more and
the second alert would yell hot pockets
right
and so the beauty of having these
arguments
and these parameters is that it gives
you the ability to pass stuff
into your functions and to recall those
functions over and over and over again
cool all right
we got a really good exercise when we
come back
so when we come back we're going to
practice our functions if functions are
tripping you up we're gonna get lots of
practice with them and then we are going
to get into our loops so let's go ahead
and put five minutes on the timer here
so you can go walk your your goldfish
please if you're new here remember we
like to be in this for a long time not a
short time
let's go ahead and if you're able get up
move around hydrate
and we'll be back in five
so
my
bye
so
you
30 seconds left folks
that was simba that was simba
you've seen moshi and you've seen simba
so far
scarlett or violet whatever one the
least people buy always buy the one that
people don't buy the most of
sorry to hear about your goldfish 51.
people are a nickel sorry they'll come
back soon
i hope you're okay glad you're still
with us
alrighty folks let's get into this chill
the music
we got some
simple functions to work through
together so let's go ahead and open up
our simple functions code you'll notice
that there are some harders that we're
not going through
that's uh that's some homework for you
go ahead and try the harders on your own
we'll go over them during office hours
so some of the harder is not going to
get to all of them try them on your own
try and push through it and then we'll
go over them at office hours
cool
all right so let's go ahead and open up
the
simple functions work
we got easy medium and hard
try and get through as many as you can
and then we'll go over them together
functions here folks five minutes on the
clock
you got this dig deep
this is simple functions you got it
now we've done a lot of this already
tonight so you can go back and take some
stuff
don't think this has to come from memory
or come from your brain
go grab it
from somewhere else and put it in
what's a quotient it's the result of
division
this is the
simple functions folder
how can you divide through numbers you
just keep on dividing
remainder is modulus yep
got this
don't the easy love to hear it love to
hear
the repetition of all this all day today
hey love the earth
that's fair okay gano it's all right
i keep the repetition up watching the
repetition more it's a little easier
so these are returned or consoled it
depends on uh there's instructions with
each of them so some of them ask for
alert some ask for console.log some ask
for returns
each one's different
yeah fox i'm leaving the hards for
office hours
i don't understand how to start a
function without clicking on something
just create the function without the
event listener and then you'll call it
like we saw on the slides previous
css gives me more sorrow than javascript
me too
i find javascript to me
easier than css i think css is just so
much stuff to memorize and have to look
up more javascript eventually it's just
there's like the four things functions
variables conditions loops once those
kind of stick in you're kind of set
takes a little while a little easier
said than done but tss is definitely the
thing gives me more pain
do we need to use semicolons on each
line no
you can also do exclamation point or
bang semicolon here in chat and i'll
give you an article on why
different folks different things right i
have some students that their css really
makes sense to them and then some folks
javascript really makes sense to them
you're going to see different things
come to you in different ways that's why
it's always so sad to see folks like
struggle with one thing when there's so
much more stuff to come that they might
be really good at right so many folks
give up before they get to back end and
the back is the thing that they're great
at right or could be great at but they
got hung up on the css and that's the
thing that led them astray so give
yourself the shot to have the things
click at different speeds
what if nothing makes sense it will
have you done your repetition have you
done your anki have you done your your
active recall you put in all the things
that we talked about in terms of
learning
i feel like a genius me too when the
code makes sense
all right let's go over this together
folks
come on back
alrighty
first one here
create a function that subtracts
two numbers
and alerts the difference all right so
it's going to create our function
and what do we think is a good function
name
subtracts two numbers
sub
two
nums
and
alert
right there we go this this function's
going to subtract two numbers and then
alert so sub two nums and alert
now we know we're taking in two numbers
so we need two
parameters when it called it
n1 and n2 i could have called it
anything i wanted could have called it
zebra and unicorn it does not matter um
but since they're numbers i'm going to
call them n1 m2
all right
subtracts the two numbers and alerts the
difference so we'll set up our alert
and we'll do
n1 minus
minus and two
there we go
beautiful
now
will this run will this function run
chat
nope why won't it run
yeah i haven't called it yet so let's go
ahead and call it
subtwo nums and alert and let's pass in
um
50 and 20 and 30. there we go we're
going to sub 2 nums and alert we're
passing in 50 and 30. we would expect
20. let's go ahead and save
let's open this in the browser
there we go we see 20 has been alerted
because we called it
let's also just have our inspector open
because we're going to lock some stuff
too right
all right so this worked go back take a
look
we have our function
declaration it has two parameters n one
and two we could have called those
parameters whatever the heck we want it
and then we called the function so that
it would run let's call it again let's
call with a different set of numbers
let's go ahead and call
let's pass in 100
and let's pass in
33.
there we go 33 133
all right let's go ahead and save it
let's go ahead and refresh
we get the first alert that has 20
and the second alert which is 67
beautiful
alrighty
let's go ahead and
i'm going to comment these two calls out
why would i comment these calls out
what if we want to let the user pick the
numbers well you'd have to set up
an event listener or you just set up
inputs and then
maybe click something so that you can
pull the values out of the input and
then you'd have to pass them into the
function as arguments
yeah i'm going to comment them out so
they're not going to run we don't keep
seeing the alerts over and over again
exactly all right create a function
divides three numbers and console logs
the quotient
all right function
divides
three
nums
and logs
and we know we're going to take in three
parameters
right we're gonna do three parameters so
we're gonna do uh zebra
forest
and unicorn
now these aren't parameters i normally
use but i just want to
show you what that could look like
all right divides three numbers and
console logs the quotient so let's go
ahead and do our console log
and we're going to divide these three
zebra
divided by forest
divided by unicorn beautiful
that division will come
through we'll have zebra forest and
unicorn
all right and then let's go ahead and
call it because it won't run until we
call it the device three numbers and
logs and let's go ahead and pass in
what's a good one let's do 12
four
and
three
yeah let's do that twelve four three
all right so let's go ahead and save
this
and then let's go ahead and look at our
console log when we run it i'm going to
refresh 321
there we go and we have one
being printed right
being printed to the console here
and the reason why
we have
zebra divided by forest divided by
unicorn so we actually
do all this here
goes into zebra
wherever i see zebra it's actually 12.
or
goes into forest
wherever i see forest
it's actually four
and then three
goes into unicorn whenever i see unicorn
it's actually
three
so 12 divided by four
is three
three divided by three
is one
and that's why we see one in the console
beautiful
create a function that multiplies three
numbers and it learns an alert sorry
multiplies three numbers and returns the
product and returns the product
interesting all right let's do this so
function
multiply
three
nums
right and
return
and then i'm going to give these better
parameter names this time
num1
num2
and num3 beautiful
and then we're going to return
num1
and we're going to do multiply so that's
the asterisk by num2
multiply
num3 beautiful
so let's go ahead and call this
multiply three nums
and return we're gonna pass in
uh let's just go ahead and pass in two
three four all right let's do a little
bit better let's do
five
ten
two
why no parentheses well
return is something different
if we looked
log
was a function
alert was a function any of those
parentheses returns a little bit
different it's not technically a
function here all return is is a keyword
that tells it to spit
to spit it out right to spit it out so
where does it return
it returns this value
to wherever it was called so here it's
being called that's where it'll be
returned to
right
that's where it'll be returned to so it
let's comment out this line here so we
don't see the console log i want us to
get confused i was going to save this
let's refresh
and we don't see anything
we don't see anything
because the return doesn't print it to
the console
the return doesn't alert it right all
the return did
was spit that value
right back here where it was called so
if we passed in 5 10 2
we know that that is a hundred so we
returned 100 here and then poof
it evaporated into the ether
right it just disappeared so what we
could do
is we could store this in a variable
and say like let
uh product
equal
right
and then we could do whatever the heck
we wanted with product
let's uh alert it
so let's save it and let's see what we
get
boom we get that alert for a hundred
all right
now
let's see let's walk through it together
here is
the call
here's our function call
it's passed into num1
n gets passed into num2
who gets passed in the number three we
wind up doing five times ten
times two which we know is a hundred and
it's returned
so this 100 gets returned to where it
was called so this 100 it's passed back
right here
so it's as though we deleted this
and plugged in 100.
all right so now product
product is equal to that hundred that's
the beauty of the return the return just
sends it to wherever it was called
right and now i can use product whenever
i want
i can use product later on i can alert
it i can console.log i can do whatever
the heck i want with it later on right
and i think a lot of people get confused
is like why would we return stuff well
what if this was money
let's create another function right
let's create another function called
turn into money
turn into
money
right and so what we're going to do is
we're going to
let's uh let's do this here
this is a little bit of advance so don't
worry this is kind of a little tricky
here doing this off the cuff just to
show some stuff we'll have way better
examples of this in the future
um
and then let's let's alert
uh
dollar sign
plus
product
i'm human thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
and let's go ahead and save this and
let's run
turn into money
all right let's save it let's see what
the heck happens here
boom we can see that there's a dollar
sign 100 now
dollar sign
right 100 now all right so let's go back
and take a look at what happened here
like i said this is tricky we'll have
better examples of this in the future
all right
we ran
turn into money that's the function we
called right so let's look here's that
function turn into money
right
now
the very first thing that this does
is it calls
another function
right it calls another function
lua bun me thank you for the posture
check i needed that hold on one second
right thank you i appreciate that
all right so the very first thing it
does is it calls the multiply three nums
we know that num1 is five
num2 is ten
num3 is two and so we wind up this
resulting in a hundred and this 100
gets returned to where it was called
the product is now equal to a hundred
and then what we do
is we alert it
the dollar sign plus product
right now the beautiful thing here is
we've separated the function
that does the multiplication
from the function
that does the conversion to money
and the beautiful thing now is we can
start to have these separate functions
that handle different pieces of logic we
could have a function that's doing the
math
and then a function that's doing the
conversion to money and the cool thing
is eventually we could turn this into
a parameter and an argument so we could
change it from
dollar signs to euros or pounds or
i don't know lyra back in the day right
so
you can just you can pass in all these
different things and so the return is
something that we might not feel super
comfortable right now but it's really
powerful because it enables us to then
have these different functions that are
each doing different pieces of logic and
we can pass the values around we can
return the values to different places
right we can spit them out of functions
into different areas
right
so that's the beauty of having return in
different functions right just enables
us to spit stuff out of one and pass it
into a different one
but like i said i just don't do this off
the cuff because somebody asked what
better examples of this in the future
all right we got a medium one here and
then we're gonna move on so
create a function that takes in three
numbers
add the first two numbers and return the
remainder of dividing the sum of the
first two numbers by the third number
oh boy all right
takes in three numbers
add the first two numbers and return the
remainder of dividing the sum of the
first two numbers
by the third number
oh
oh boy
this is um some quick maths all right
let's take a look at this
i'm gonna call this function
add to
and
divide right we're going to add two
numbers then we're going to divide them
or technically it's not yeah we'll say
divide but it's really modulus right all
right so let's go ahead and create our
parameters and one and two and three
and what are we going to do we need to
[Music]
return so we're going to use our return
statement here
return
and then we want to add the first two
numbers together and then divide
and return the remainder so as soon as
you see remainder what do we know we
need to do
yeah we need to do modulus and so let's
add the first two numbers n one plus
n2
and then do the remainder with n3
there's a problem that we're going to
run into here though
there's a problem we're going to run
into though
yeah order of operations don't don't
panic
pemdas bendos whatever you call it
please excuse my dear aunt sally it
actually is still in play in javascript
so order of operations matters here and
so
the parentheses would actually happen
first so what i'm going to do is i'm
going to wrap the addition in
parentheses just to make sure we do that
first right so as it says
add the first two numbers and then
return to remainder right so i'm gonna
make sure these first two numbers get
added first right
and then we'll do the modulus
cool
math
leon you said do math
there my middle school math teacher
would be so proud i'm using this exactly
we're bringing it back
cool um let's go ahead and call this
function
add
to and divide and let's pass in some
values let's do
three three and two
so if this was to work we should see
three
go into n1
3 go into n2
2 go into three and so we wind up with
is three plus three
modulus 2
and so what should we wind up with folks
what should we wind up with
yeah we we should wind up with zero
but will we be able to see the zero
anywhere
we gotta see this zero remember it was
returned so
it was spit out
to where it was called but we haven't
done anything with it so let's
console.log it
cool
let's console log it
let's save it and let's see if we can
i'm going to comment this stuff out up
here
just to make sure we're not running into
anything weird
all right let's go ahead and run it
beautiful we got that zero
nice
modulus is just the remainder
oh alrighty folks
let's keep pushing
hopefully the review is helping a little
bit seeing these things a little bit
try the hard on your own
the wording is definitely rough on the
hard ones it's meant to make you have to
think through some pseudo code before
you get to the uh
the actual meat potatoes there
alrighty let's keep pushing
loops i promise you we get the loops
today
i like to do a lot of review but i
always like to give something new at the
end right so we're going to talk about
loops what the heck are
loops
we'll be doing more reviews together
absolutely in fact this sunday we're
doing reviews we're going to be
reviewing html css javascript all the
stuff we covered tonight reviewing it
right so come back on uh sunday if you
want to do more review
all right what are loops
my nightmare no
loops are a way of repeating an action
some number of times right so with a
loop you can take an action and repeat
it a certain number of times over and
over and over again right there are
three main kinds of loops in javascript
there are more than three but there are
three like big ones four
while and do while and each different
type of loop just offers a slightly
different way to determine like when you
start and stop the loop
right and so loops can be a lot of fun
they can also be a little
dangerous
right so with the loop
since you're repeating something over
and over again
there is a chance
that you don't ever stop the loop uh
there is a chance that uh you might
break some things so we're gonna take a
look at loops together and then we're
going to talk about how they can be a
little
dangerous
now i promise i won't do something that
i do with all my students in meat space
in meat space one of my favorite things
to do
is to have all my students
run
a loop
that doesn't end
and before chrome put in blockers
their computers would just crash right
eventually the loop just keeps going
going going you use up more and more
more ram and then
lights out computer turns off shuts down
and crashes i won't do that to y'all
because we're live um but it's something
that you have to be aware of and keep
that in the back of your mind all right
the first loop we're going to look at is
a for loop and when you look at the
documentation for a for loop it's it's
kind of scary there's an initial
expression
a condition expression and an increment
expression what the heck does that mean
all that means is
where does the loop start
when does the loop
stop
and how much do we go up by or down by
or how do we increment each time so
we're going up by one maybe we're going
down by one right and so when you look
at it at first a little tricky but let's
look at an actual for loop together
all right here we go
we have a for loop if we were to run
this for loop let me go ahead and run
this for loop for you in the in the
console here let me copy it
let me open up my inspector
and let's run it
three two one beautiful you can see that
i printed one to the console
two to the console
three to the console and then four but
there was no
five
so let's let's talk about why
all right
here is
our increment
sorry here is our variable that we're
going to use for incrementing
it is just a counter
right it's just the counter it's the
thing we're going to use to keep track
of how many times our loop has
run
right now i is typically short for
increment anybody have an idea why we
might use
i for our iteration counter or our
incremented value why would we use i and
not like the word
iteration or increment
because back in the day would take up
too much space remember
our variables are being stored in memory
right and so if your memory was very
limited you're not going to write out
these big long words that have to be
stored into memory you're going to keep
it short and sweet and concise in just
one letter right so that kind of carries
in some folks still have that but it's
just easy to have it short and sweet
right cool so we're going to start off
our count at one
right we set up a variable for our
account
and we're going to start it off at one
you'll see sometimes people start with
zero that's up to you
and we're gonna go until
this count
is no longer less than five so this is
our start
this is our end and this is what happens
to our count each time
the loop
runs
all right so let's let's look at this
the very first time this runs
i is what
the very first time this runs i is what
it is one exactly remember we started
off at one the very first time this runs
we are at one now
since the loop has
done its first cycle
we're going to add 1
to i that's what the plus plus means
we're just going to add 1 to i so the
very next time that this loops runs
right the very next time this loop runs
what is i now
it's two exactly
then we're going to add another value to
i
so now the next time that this runs
it is three right
now each time it runs what we're doing
is we're saying hey
is i still less than five
and when we did the check we said all
right is one less than five yep and we
did the check is 2 less than 5
yep then is 3 less than 5
yep thank you for the hype train folks
all right
now
after this is done we run it again we
add another one to i
and now we're at four
is four
less than five yes four is less than
five
right four is less than five so we we
see that four get printed to the console
now
at the end of the cycle we do another
plus 1
and we have to ask ourselves
is 5 less than 5
no
5 is no longer less than five so we're
done we stop that's it we're done with
our loop
right we're done with our loop let's do
that one more time
the very first time we run
i is one so we see
is one
less than five since that is true we do
the stuff inside the curly braces
and we print one to the console
then when we're done
we do that plus one
and we have to check again
is two less than five
since it is true we do what's inside the
curly braces and we put two
then three then four but then the hard
part is that once we're doing five less
than 5 it no longer is true so it
doesn't run
cool
what if i wanted 5 to show up
yeah i could change this to less than
or equal exactly i could change this to
less than or equal and then it would
include five because we would get to
that we'd get to the point where i is
now five and we'd say hey is five less
than or equal to five yes that would be
true
we would console log five we would add
one and then we're at six is six less
than or equal to five no
we have to stop
all right we'd stop
cool
now
what if
i started my count off
what if i did this
if i do this what if i changed my
starting point
to 10
right so i is equal to 10
would this ever run
would our loop ever run
no
because we would do our check is 10
less than 5 no
so it would never run we would never see
the loop happen you got to be careful
what you start increment with what if
we started our
counter off here with 10
and we did this
look what i did there
is 10 greater than 5
yes so would this run
it would run yeah
will this ever
not be true right so we start off with
we add one now we're at 11 is 11 greater
than 5 yes is 12 greater than 5 yes is
13 greater than 5 so this is what we
call an infinite loop it's always going
to be true
so it will keep running over and over
and over and over again until your
computer runs out of memory
and it crashes so
i like to tell you all that i was a
little [__] growing up well not me this
is somebody else this was not me
this is this is a friend
there's a friend right so one of the
things like when i was like four
not four when i was in like four fifth
sixth grade i had a friend
right that didn't know better was a
scumbag right then didn't know better
and um
you could send people to websites that
had infinite loops
and when they would open up the site
their computer would crash
uh the beautiful thing is that chrome
now stops this from happening
so you don't need to do that
and then there's something that was
really interesting that used to happen
if you had aol 4.0
if you just held down the space bar it
would keep looping through whenever you
sent an email
right so this friend used to put a rock
on their space bar
and it would just keep sending emails
into the millions they would go to
school they would come home they'd take
the rock off and it'd be millions of
emails sent to somebody
and there was no way to delete emails in
batches back then so you had to like
call aol
and i remember the year that that
happened
because they had to change their name to
like name plus the year that it happened
um
because they got banned so
these loops can be dangerous they can be
used for good the ability to do things
over and over again but they can also be
used for evil and as newly knighted
developers of the web you must go out
there and do
good with your loops so let's go ahead
and do some good with our loops we're
going to look at one other loop real
quick and then we are going to get some
practice
actually let's get some practice first
all right so here let's open up the 21
savage loop
open up the 21 savage loop
it's in the title sir savage the 21st
all right create a function that has a
loop
that prints 21
21 times to the console and then call
that function
so you're going to literally take that
for loop from the previous slide
and make it print 21 21 times to the
console 21 21 21 all right
and then if you want to do a bonus see
if you can get that 21 into the dom and
not the console let me go ahead i'm
going to bring five minutes up on the
timer here now let's do
let's do
two minutes because i want you to copy
and paste
i literally want you to copy and paste
for this one that way we can we can get
to get there in time
all right two minutes on the clock
fast as you can go you got this
i didn't start the timer
you got this
we'll do the bonus together too
got some duns coming in okay
uh you can put the for loop inside of a
function yep
your computer foes you might have done
the
the uh the infinite loop so be careful
that here true joe
you're first done hey kyle that's
awesome
i have my function my loop but i don't
know how to get it to stop it means that
you have to have a good end condition
you have to close your chrome tab for
the infinite loop to stop
when i say print i just mean logging it
to the console yeah
first right good
all right
let's go ahead and do this together
double it i got your pokemon card at the
end we'll go we'll do it at the end
all right
we got a pokemon card redemption we'll
do it we'll do it at the end i got you
remind me before we do our raid
alrighty
create a function
that
has a loop
and prints 21 21 times to the console
i'm going to call this savage
and it's going to do our for loop so
let's put a for loop in here
the same thing that we saw from the
slides what are we gonna start our
counter at so let's just say let i equal
uh one we'll start counting at one
sometimes you might start it at zero
it's up to you
um we could call it whatever we want to
it doesn't have to be called it can be
called zebra for all it matters it
doesn't matter um but it's just very
common to see i j k
cool
all right so let i equal 21 i equal one
and then we want to do this while i is
less than what
when i is less than what
yeah
less than 22 right less than 22 let's
see
i is less than 22 and then let's go
ahead and do i plus plus
so we got our we got our we got our
loop set up
gonna start counting at one we're gonna
go until i is less while as long as i is
less than 22 we're going to keep going
as soon as it hits 22 we're done and
we're going to go up by one each time
and so we want to put this in the
console so let's console console.log
21.
beautiful let's save this
let's open this in the console
inspect
and let's go ahead and run
it's not running why didn't it run
why didn't it run
not running
yeah i didn't call my function let's go
ahead and call our function
it's the most common mistake people run
into so i want to keep doing it
savage21 let's go ahead and run it now
beautiful
we can see that it ran 21
times
21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 all right
so the beautiful thing here is we
started off counting at one
we went all the way up until it was 22
once it was 22 it was no longer less
than 22 so we stopped and each time we
did those revolutions we printed 21 to
the console a lot exactly
cool now there was a
bonus here make it print 21 times to the
dom let's try that
do we have a place in our dom to put it
we do we have this h2
with the id
right
but the id of savage says
that's where we're going to put it
so let's just copy that
and we're going to use some of the code
that we've seen before
so let's just go ahead and do document
dot query selector
and we're going to go ahead and do
[Music]
the id of established remember we use
the octothorpe for the id
and what can we use to put something
into the dom
what have we seen before to put
something into the dom
yeah i see some folks already saying it
inner text
now that's something that you might that
you definitely seen in previous examples
something that should be in your inky
deck something that you should have
typed over and over and over again so if
you're if you said to yourself leah i
don't know how to put something into the
dom you got to make sure it's in your
anki you got to make sure that you did
that repetition because you did that
repetition you would have known to
remember inner text right
cool all right so inner text equals and
we're going to just do 21.
let's see what happens here
let's save this
let's see if it puts 21 into the dom
it's refresh
it did
it put 21 into the dom i see it but
that's not what we wanted 21 is there
but it's just once
now the funny thing
is it actually did this loop
21 times it did put 21 into the dom 21
times we just didn't see it happened so
quick
we didn't see it just did it 21 times
but the computer is way faster than we
are so it did it 21 times but we just
see the 1
right so what we want to do is we want
to append it to the dom we want to
concatenate it so instead of just doing
it equals let's do
plus equals
right
let's do plus equal we kept reassigning
it exactly we kept overwriting it over
and over and over again we weren't
actually concatenating or putting them
all in there so now let's do plus equals
so it'll be whatever there is there
already plus 21. so we'll just keep
adding our 21s over and over and over
again
and i want a little bit of space in
between them so i'm going to put a
little space there
so now let's try it let's refresh
and there we go we got our 21s
21 times
to the dom
beautiful
did you say this concatenates it yeah
because what it's doing
then we can go and look in the elements
we can see that it literally put
21 times into the dom 21 21 21 21 21
all right
all alrighty let's keep pushing
next thing we got here
is that there are other kinds of loops
we're not there yet just know that there
are different kinds of loops and the
different kinds of loops
um have slightly different times when
you use them based on like when you want
to start and stop or how you're like
determining your end condition don't
worry we're going to get lots of
practice with loops further on
another common one is a while loop
you'll notice something very different
about a while loop is that you're doing
the increment inside of the curly braces
and so don't worry about these too much
right now we're gonna get more practice
with them later on
i just always like to put a little
disclaimer with the while loops is that
they're a little bit easier to get
yourself into infinite loop territory so
be careful you're gonna see them in the
reading we're gonna do them together not
tonight we're focused on for loops
tonight cool
all right let's move on to the next one
we're gonna we're gonna get through this
and then one more example and then we'll
uh do the pokemon card and then we'll do
our raid all right let's stop late night
snacking uh my biggest advice is late
night snacking uh so let's see if we can
help me
so let's open up the stop snacking
and let's open this in the browser
all right there we go
beautiful
so
here's stop stop late night snacking app
uh you're gonna enter in how many snacks
you have
right
how many snacks you have and then you
click for help
and it'll tell you to stop snacking
that many times
right so
put in how many snacks you have
then click for help and it should tell
you how many snacks you have
all right so let's go ahead
put some time on the clock here
we're gonna go a little over tonight
let's uh let's let's put a
let's put just three minutes on the
clock and then we'll go over it together
just because we're up against the the
time here a little bit
three minutes on the clock and then
we'll go over it together
you got this
it's a loop
the loop
you now know to put stuff into the dom
you just saw it
if you can figure it out
you got to get a value out of an input
we got to pass that in to the number of
loops
give it the good old 100 devs try
write out your pseudo code if you don't
know how to do the actual code
we'll go over it together
you've seen all these pieces so far
tonight don't let the hard question get
you you've seen each of these pieces
tonight go back and look at the other
examples if you need it
all right you saw how to get stuff out
of an input tonight you saw how to
create a loop tonight
what was the syntax for concatenating
inner text just plus equals
plus equals
so instead of just doing the equal you
do plus equals
bastian hey welcome
uh the instructions are in the js so
grab the number of stacks from the input
and tell the user to stop that many
times
even
i would nugget i think so
it's a loop because you have to tell
them how to tell them to stop multiple
times but it's a loop no
newton it is absolutely
all right folks 43 seconds left
you got this
so many stops
welcome maury glad you found us
all right let's do this folks
let's look at this together
all right we're going to kind of pull
together a lot of little things that
we've seen
uh first we know that the user is going
to click on
help
so let's set up our event listener
all right
let's set up our event listener for the
help
so we've seen event listeners a bunch of
times now you should have practiced them
a bunch should have rewritten them over
and over again so we know that our
document.queryselector
and then the the actual id was help
that's the thing we're clicking on so
let's go ahead and throw our octothorp
help in here
beautiful
and
then we need to add our event listener
i'm just letting
let in the text editor help me here we
know we want it to be a click
and then we're going to run a a function
called stop
snacking there we go so the name of our
function so now we have our event
listener we can click on help and we can
run the function stop snacking so let's
set up our function
stop snacking beautiful
and we know that we want to we want to
do something multiple times
right we want to do something
multiple times
right but we need to know how many times
to do it and we're going to get that
value from the inputs we've seen that
before too
so let's go ahead and get the value out
of the input
um
we might use const because it's a value
coming out of the input but i don't know
what we're going to do with it so let's
do let and let's say
number of
snacks
actually like numb better numb of snacks
right
and we're going to go into the dom and
get the value out of the input so once
again document
dot query selector
all right and let's look at what the
input is
the input has
no id
there's nothing on it so there's only
one input so we can actually just say
input
it wasn't an id there wasn't a class
but there's only one input so i'm just
gonna
grab the input
and we're gonna get the value
out of the input
cool
we got the value out of the input now
just as
a precaution
right
we know we're dealing with inputs and
sometimes when it comes to inputs we
might wind up with what
hey hyper might wind up with what
with inputs we might wind up with
strings so just because we know we're
going to use this as a number let's not
play any games we might not need to do
it let's just make sure we wrap this in
number let's make sure whatever comes
out of that input
is indeed treated as a number so number
of stacks
the number of snacks will actually be a
number beautiful
so now if we want to do something over
and over again
we need our what
we're going to do something over and
over again we need what
a loop
beautiful notice how i notice how i do
my loops hold on let me let me clean
that up for you let me do that again
four parentheses curly braces and then i
hit enter i always do my parentheses i
always do my curly braces and then i go
back and the reason is i will forget
them if i don't do it that way so if you
lose a
parenthesis or a curly brace you're
going to run into some trouble so i
always type it all the way out and then
i come back and put it in
all right we saw with our loop we have
to set up our counter so let i equal
and we can go ahead and start counting
at one just to make it easier eventually
we'll start counting at zero but not
tonight
um all right let i equal one we're going
to say while i is less than what or
sorry less than or equal to what
we want this to loop once for each snack
yeah for number of snacks exactly
beautiful
so here we have the idea that we're
going to
grab
we're going to grab
the value out of the input
we're going to turn it into a number
you'll hear my stomach that was wild
i don't know if i don't pick that up uh
we're going to grab the number of snacks
i'm getting hungry uh
that's what happens when we go over
we're talking about snacks and we're
going over time i don't know
my stomach's doing the most
we're gonna grab the the value out of
the input we're gonna make sure that
it's a number
and we're setting up our loops that we
start off at one we're gonna go until we
reach the number of snacks that we have
and we're going to go up by one each
time so i plus plus beautiful
so what we're going to do each time this
runs is we need to tell the user to stop
so let's go ahead and do our
document
dot query selector
and where are we going to put it let's
look in here we have this id of stops
this h2 with the id of stops this is
where we're going to append our stops
so let's go ahead and grab the id of
stops
cool
and then remember we saw to put
something to put something in we use
that inner
inner text
inner text equals um but we can't just
do equals we need to do what
we can't just do equals that would just
show one
just show one
yeah we gotta do plus equals plus equals
and we're gonna say stop
beautiful
why do i put the space here
why do i put the space there
not needed but why do i do it
the visual exactly it's ugly otherwise
it just makes it cleaner it puts an
actual space remember we're
concatenating everything so it puts an
actual space in that concatenation
all right so let's save this let's see
if it works
all right
i ain't got that many snacks let's say
three
got three snacks click for help
stop stop stop
nice all right
five snacks
uh oh
i thought it was first try
let's see
we did
one two three
four five six seven eight
hold on let's let's let's do one snack
uh-oh
what are we doing
we just keep concatenating right the
page hasn't refreshed so the dom's not
being rewritten
right is there a way that we could ref
that we could clear this out we don't
refresh the page is there a way that we
could clear it out each time we click
let's let's think about it let's go back
all right so we we clicked
we grabbed the number from the input
what i'm going to do is i'm going to go
document
dot query selector
and i'm going to go to where we're going
to put the stops
and i'm going to change it to be
empty
all right i'm going to go to stops
and whatever is in there i'm going to
make it empty and then
we do our loop
so each time this runs each time we
click
help the first thing we're doing is
getting the value out of the input
then turning stops to be empty and then
doing our loop to put the stops in there
so let's save this
let's go back let's refresh the page
and let's do three stops
stop stop stop and then let's do one
i'm gonna click
and we just have one stop
right because what i did right what i
did was i said all right here's the
click event
our smurf heard the click
it ran the stop snacking function we
grabbed the value out of the input and
we put whatever the heck was inside of
that h2 we decided to be empty we said
it to be empty right and then we did our
loop putting the stops in there
that's it
all right
all right so now we can start to start
to do some fun stuff right now we have
the ability to like
listen for events we have the ability to
get stuff out of inputs we have the
ability to like clear out stuff we have
to be able to put stuff into the dom
this is where javascript gets to be a
little bit fun right you can start doing
stuff and so
i know we did a lot tonight i know that
there are a lot of
uh things that are complicated and hard
when it first comes to javascript but
we're going to keep working at it right
we're going to keep working at it we're
going to keep getting lots of review
sunday come back sunday we're gonna do
more review on sunday come back out to
class we're gonna do more of you in
class and then we're gonna keep picking
up the pace right so we're gonna keep it
going but you have to for homework you
have to for homework go back through
these examples
you have to redo them you have to play
with them you have to break them you got
to have some fun with it
right
all right let's take a look uh homework
uh there's two there's two more things
here
uh there's this bring it on assignment
and this bring it on again
i would love for you to try bring it on
and bring it on again before you come to
office hours
because we're going to go over them
together and it's just way more practice
if we look at bring it on before we do
the raid um
right if we look at the bring it on
we have our variables we have our
functions we have our conditionals and
then we got some loops down here
right
right i want you to practice these
you know what
i'm going to go late
if you need to leave
please leave
if you if you're running i know it i
know it's fuming three hours is hard uh
but i'm feeling good right now i feel
like we i feel like some folks some
things are clicking so i'm gonna do it
if you need to leave please leave no no
qualms you can always come back to the
vod i'm gonna redo it again on sunday
anyway
uh but i'm gonna i'm gonna do it so i'm
gonna put let's put three minutes on the
clock here
let's see how fast you can go through
this
and then we're gonna go over it together
now let's let's just do it for real
i know this is rough that we went over
if you gotta leave please leave no no
harm no foul come back watch the vod
come on sunday we'll do it over again
um
but let's let's go we're gonna we're
gonna go a little later
five minutes you got this we're gonna go
over it and then we'll do our raid i'm
gonna do the uh
this is this is bring it on this is
bringing on is the one we're looking at
right here bring it on
five minutes bring it on you got this
you gotta leave no worries please leave
i know going over is rough
but uh i want this to click for some
more folks
got to go to bed that's okay and now i'm
going over take your time
you'll be in the bond come on back
yeah the pokemon card let me do the
pokemon card while we're while folks are
working and then we go over it
all right
i get you you got to go eat go eat my
stomach's grumbling too
all right
double
header b
double title b this is uh for your
pokemon card draw
here are the cards that are possible
uh whatever this results in is the card
that you'll get and then you have to
send me a whisper
on
on here on twitch and i'll get the card
to you it takes me a little while to
mail them out but it'll come to you so
let's go and do this
two
oh that's so close let's see
oh card name we gotta redo it that was
so close you know what screw it i'm
gonna give you the top one that's the
first time we hit a two you're gonna get
the top one you're getting the luxory
coming your way congrats
always the one and twos i redo but
it's been it's been a good class we're
going over time you get the top rated
card luck's right coming your way send
me uh send me a whisper
it'll take me a while to get the mailed
out but it's coming your way
all right minute 30 we're gonna go over
this together folks and then we'll we'll
get out of here
got this folks keep digging keep digging
you're gonna see the new batman i'm not
going to movie theaters yet but i'll be
seeing the new
batman alien i feel like things aren't
still clicking is it okay to feel like
this absolutely that's how we started
off class right like the idea is that
this stuff takes somewhat longer
sometimes harder to click but as long as
you're putting in the work right you're
doing your repetition you're doing
everything that we asked you to do it'll
make sense eventually just got to keep
plugging along we got tons more review
to do even though we keep adding new
topics we'll always come back and review
uh are the clips gonna be sent to the
same thread as last tuesday no we're
gonna do a i think we might actually do
a slido so folks can upvote them um that
way like the really good ones can get
upvoted to the top
but i'll share the i'll share the thread
or whatever in the app the post class
message
all right folks let's go over these
together
thanks for staying strong
no worries if you got a dip though
all right let's look at these together
alrighty create a variable on
console.log the value easy all right
let num equal
right and then console log the value
console.log
num beautiful
next
create a variable add 10 to it
alert the value let
uh second
num
equal
i don't know
and then add 10 to it
uh second num
equals
second num
plus
and then alert
second
num
beautiful
all right
we uh created one here
console logged it created a new one
added 10 to it alert the value beautiful
we're going to go through these quick
doing it we're bringing it on again
all right
bringing it on bring it on again is the
next one all right create a function
that subtracts four numbers and alerts
the difference
function
sub
four
nums
and
alert beautiful uh we're going to need
four what
all right
we're gonna need four what
or parameters all right let's do n one
and two and three and four beautiful
and then we gotta subtract them and so
let's throw it in the alert
let's do n 1 minus n 2 minus n 3
minus n 4.
all right we haven't called this let's
call it and make sure that it works
let's go ahead and uh do sub
for numbers and alert and let's do
five four three two
one
and give us a negative
but uh let's go and open this and run it
we have all of our alerts going we got
the original dvd release photo for
bringing on yes all these will be
bringing on themed going forwards uh you
got bring it on bring it on again all
the way up to worldwide cheer smack
we're coming for them all
already
we saw that we did five minus four which
is
one minus three
which would get us to two
uh whatever we did the math it did it
for us
we saw the negative four show up
beautiful
that's only four
oh sorry
i did five arguments here right look i
did five arguments
right but there's four parameters so
what do you think happened to this last
argument
it can get passed in through a different
way but there's no bucket for it right
here there's no bucket for it so in this
case we kind of we just ignored it even
though we passed in an extra one we just
ignored it and so that's why we have
negative 4 right 5 minus 4 is 1 1 minus
3 is 2 negative 2 negative 2 minus 2 is
negative 4. that's why we saw the
negative 4 alert
beautiful
create a function that divides one
number by another and returns the
remainder as soon as we see remainder
what do we know we're doing
modulus exactly so let's do a
function
uh get the
remainder
beautiful we're gonna pass in two
numbers
and then
what do they want us to do when it's to
return
we'll return n1
modulus n2 remember when we return stuff
it just poofs into thin air
so we could wrap this in a console log
if we wanted to or put it into a
variable whatever just to store it but
let's do it in a console log and we'll
do get the remainder and we can pass in
uh 12 and
three
right if we did 12 and three what would
we expect in the console
12 and 3 what do we expect in the
console
0 exactly so let's go ahead let's open
up our console
let's refresh
we got our alerts going
and then we see zero in the console nice
working
conditionals
create a function that adds to numbers
that the sum is greater than 50 alert
jumanji
function
add two
alert
jumanji
beautiful we know we're taking in two
parameters even though i know it's
parameters i i still do my parentheses i
still do my curly braces and then i go
back
so we'll say num1 num2
and then if we're going to see if it's
greater than 50 what do we need
get out of here with the rock there's
only one jumanji and you know it
i love the rock though just
jumanji's
a really great movie
conditional exactly
so we're going to say if
n1
plus
n2
is greater than 50
then we will alert jumanji
beautiful
all right so let's call it add to an
alert jumanji and let's put in two
numbers
50 and one
so we know that this is over 50 because
it's 50 and one 50 plus one would be 51
50 won't be over than 50. so we should
see
jumanji alerted
30.
boom negative four boom jumanji all
right we're on fire let's go
create a function that multiplies three
numbers and if the product's divisible
by three alert zebra i'm on fire let's
do it
function
multiply
three and
divide
by three
all right see all right let's do
multiply three
and
check
div
bye
three i'm getting wild with my names
here you don't have to get this this
serious
three numbers
all right so let's go and do n one
and two
and three i'm getting excited
all right let's go ahead and figure out
the product first
let product
equal n1
times n2
times n3
and then we gotta we gotta check we
gotta check to see if it's divisible by
three how could i check to see if it's
divisible by three you can see me
getting hungry and hungrier how can i
check to see if it's divisible by three
we need another conditional and we can
use modulus
right he's modulus in that conditional
beautiful all right let's do product
modulus
three if it equals what
if we if it equals what we know it's
divisible by three yes if it equals zero
beautiful we're flowing
i'm typing wrong
if it equals zero yes
and if it does equal zero
what do we gotta do
we gotta alert zebra
beautiful there we go
so
we're gonna take in three numbers right
we're gonna multiply them all together
if when you use modulus you get zero you
know that it is going in evenly so if if
we did like three times
three times one we would have nine
nine my three is zero
stephanie a thank you for the five kids
of subs i appreciate you thank you for
being here
if we get zero
we know that it went in evenly right
which means that there was uh no
remainder which means it is
divisible
cool let's call this let's let's see it
in action
let's pass in that that uh three three
and one that we talked about let's save
it all right let's go back let's refresh
still see our jumanji there it is and we
got our zebra
it's
working we're on fire folks
now this one's a little tricky
right we got the
product from doing the multiplication up
here
and we're doing
the modulus of three right
we want to see if it's equal to zero
because if it's equal to zero that would
be a true statement we would know that
it is indeed divisible by three and we
can alert zebra
yeah
last one last one folks create a
function that takes in a word and a
number console log that word x times
where x was the number passed in got you
function
log word
x times
beautiful we're taking in a a word
and a number
got it if we're gonna we're gonna log
something multiple times what do we need
what do we need we're gonna we're gonna
log something multiple times what do we
need
a loop let's loop it let's set up our
four
let i equal one right while i
is less than or equal to num then we're
going to do i plus plus each one and
then all we're gonna do inside of our
for loop
console.log
word
beautiful
let's pass it in
let's go ahead and call it log
word x times
wonderful
and let's pass in
uh 21 times let's save it
let's go back
let's refresh we see our
still gotta agree to our zebra let's
refresh
30 negative four jumanji zebra and
there's me telling you
you're wonderful
21 times
thank you for sticking through it
i know this is a lot i know i went
through it fast first try
now
come back to this
if you're hung up on the modules if
you're hung back up on the loops come
back to this re-watch the bot the vods
immediately available come back and
watch it play with all this stuff i want
you to redo everything that's in this
bring it on redo it delete it retype it
make sure you can do it without having
to look at the code and then once you're
feeling good you understand all the
pieces
bring it on again
right bring it on again
all right so i know this was a a long
one i know we got through a lot of
material sorry i went over half an hour
over uh thank you for hanging out thank
you for being wonderful thank you for
being here let's set up a raid let's
spread some love and positivity
so many amazing folks let's go and see
who's live
how low is is is live let's go over to
calo creations
let's say hello
you haven't said hello to them before
give them some
have follows wonderful rest of your
night have a wonderful
saturday and i will see you all back for
the grind on sunday we're going to do a
lot of review
come through if things are still not
sticking you're still a little stuck
that's all right that's what sunday is
for we come back to a wonderful week of
networking thank you for hanging out
let's read